 





































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



































































































Eyebrow menu


UIC menu










Search the site














 














Office oftheChancellor




Office of the Chancellor
 











UIC Office of the Chancellor






Chancellor introduction




          Chancellor Michael Amiridis
        


Chancellor Michael Amiridis—like many UIC students—reflects the diverse, global nature of Chicago. The native of northern Greece was himself a first-generation college student, who came to the U.S. to pursue graduate studies in chemical engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Prior to his becoming UIC chancellor in March 2015, Amiridis spent over two decades as a professor, researcher and senior administrator at the University of South Carolina.
He calls UIC “a model of a public urban research institution in this country, located in a most vibrant global city.”
“I believe with its rich history of success in high quality education, in the creation and application of new knowledge, and with its unique strengths in the health sciences and in community engagement, access and inclusion, UIC is well-positioned for the future,” he said.
As UIC’s chancellor, Amiridis heads Chicago’s largest university campus, with 30,000 students. The campus ranks 58th in federal research funding.
UIC has a nearly $2 billion budget, 12,000 faculty and staff, and 15 academic colleges, including the nation’s largest medical school. UIC also operates the state’s major public medical center, along with a network of federally qualified clinics and regional health sciences campuses in Peoria, Rockford and Urbana-Champaign.





Important links and news





            New Office of the Vice Chancellor for Innovation
        

                UIC’s innovation and commercialization portfolio under one office
            







            All News & Communications
        

                Read more news from and about the Chancellor
            







            UIC Strategic Priorities
        

                Leveraging Our Strengths to Shape the Future
            







            Mission: To model life on Saturn’s moon in the lab
        

                UIC researchers receive $1.1 million, five-year grant from NASA’s Astrobiology Institute 
            







            UIC establishes new graduate degree in city design
        

                College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs offers new interdisciplinary learning experience
            







            UI Health’s CMO named ‘Physician of the Year'
        

                Dr. Terry Vanden Hoek honored by the Chicago Medical Society
            

























Office oftheChancellor






Related Offices



















Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 2833 UH Chicago IL 60607


 


Social Media Accounts











UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses
























