 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu












Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site














 














Office ofthe Provostand ViceChancellorfor AcademicAffairs




Office of the Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs


















Welcome from the Provost




Susan PoserProvost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Phone: 312-413-3450 Email: 



Welcome to the website of the Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs of the University of Illinois at Chicago. UIC prides itself on providing students with access to academic excellence and opportunity in an exciting urban environment. We are Chicago’s only public research university, and one of the most ethnically and culturally diverse college campuses in the country, with over 31,000 students, 15 colleges, a hospital and a health sciences system.
As UIC’s chief academic officer, I am responsible for the planning, execution, and assessment of UIC’s academic programs so that our students are prepared to pursue their chosen paths in life and to be productive and contributing members of their communities. I am dedicated to the support and retention of our outstanding faculty, and to the recruitment of the next generation of scholars and researchers.
This office, along with the leadership team at UIC is deeply engaged in facilitating the implementation of the strategic priorities identified by the Chancellor and supported through an extensive process of faculty governance. These priorities are:






This website contains resources about academic policies and opportunities at UIC. The academic mission is further supported and implemented by the Vice Provosts.   or email Associate Provost and Chief of Staff, Aisha El-Amin at  with any questions or concerns.














Contact Us











Report a UIC Policy or Procedure










Provost Office Hours













Provost Communications










Faculty Search Committee Training










Task Force on Immigration Issues













The John Marshall Law School and UIC: Chicago's Public Law School
The board of trustees of both the University of Illinois and The John Marshall Law School have voted to create UIC John Marshall Law School, which will become Chicago’s only public law school. In addition to providing current and prospective students with a more affordable legal education, UIC’s acquisition of John Marshall will create opportunities for interdisciplinary courses and new joint and dual-degree programs aligned with UIC strengths in disciplines such as the health sciences, engineering and technology, urban planning and public administration, the social sciences and business.
Read major press coverage:

















Colleges and Units Reporting to the Provost


















































































The Provost's Management Team





            Associate Provost and Chief of Staff
          



























































Units Reporting to the Provost








            Barbara Ransby, Director 
          






            Peter Pfanner, Executive Director
          






             Aginah Muhammad, Executive Director
          






            Janette Salamanca Maldonado, Interim Executive Director

          









Announcements and Events







Posted on November 29, 2018



 




Posted on November 28, 2018



 




Posted on November 13, 2018



 




Posted on November 07, 2018



 







Feb
5
2019








        Tuesday
                                    , 12:30 pm
              - 2:00 pm      

          Student Center East, Illinois Rooms
        






Feb
7
2019








        Thursday
                                    , 5:00 pm
              - 6:30 pm      

          Innovation Center
        










Class Scheduling Grid and Report





















Office ofthe Provostand ViceChancellorfor AcademicAffairs






Resources

























Quick Links



















Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 2832 UH, Chicago IL 60607-7128
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts











UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















