 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu














































































Eyebrow menu


UIC menu










Search the site














 

















Office ofthe ViceChancellorfor HealthAffairs




Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs
Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs


















        leadership quote
      





It’s a privilege to have the opportunity to work with the committed clinicians, researchers and educators who comprise one of the nation’s strongest and most diverse academic health care enterprises. The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs is committed to fostering a collaborative environment across health disciplines that results in real outcomes for our students, patients and the public at large.



  Robert A. Barish, MD, MBA
  
               | 
              
  UIC Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs
  









Welcome
The UIC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs provides oversight of the University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System (UI Health), which delivers comprehensive care, education, and research to communities locally and globally.
UI Health is the academic health enterprise of the University of Illinois at Chicago, consisting of the seven UIC health science colleges – including campuses across the state, hospital and affiliated clinics. Dedicated to the pursuit of health equity, UI Health provides comprehensive care, education, and research to train health care leaders and foster healthy communities in Illinois and beyond.
As Chicago’s ONLY public research university, UIC prides itself on sparking new discoveries and innovations that can be practically applied for the benefit of the public and the communities across Chicago, the state of Illinois and around the world. Capitalizing on the presence of the seven UIC health science colleges, UIC and UI Health bring together expertise and curiosity across diverse disciplines like few others in the nation.
Please explore the units of the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs to discover how UIC and UI Health work collaboratively to explore modern methods of health education, inspire innovative research and deliver insightful care to our patients and their communities.





OVCHA Staff Highlight






Since I came to UIC 40 years ago I have had opportunities to meet, work with and get to know amazing and inspiring students, patients and colleagues across the university – including at regional campuses. Learning and working at UIC has always been meaningful for me because of the university’s strong commitment to providing access to high quality education and health care, especially for those who might not otherwise have access to either.
My current roles – as Director of Interprofessional Education in the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs and as Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs in the College of Applied Health Sciences – are a perfect opportunity to draw on what I have learned as a clinician, educator and administrator about health professions education and health care delivery. With a great group of colleagues from across UIC we are building a curriculum that will develop in our graduates the ability to collaborate interprofessionally and integrate interprofessional collaborative practice into our health care delivery system.



  Mary Keehn, PT, DPT, MHPE
  
               | 
              
  Director, Interprofessional Education
  








UI HEALTHNEWS & UPDATES





Upcoming Events





Apr
12
2019








        Friday
                                    , 9:00 am
              - 5:00 pm      

          UIC Forum
        








Apr
22
2019








        Monday
                                    , 10:00 am
              - 3:00 pm      

          College of Nursing, 3rd Floor Event Center/Student Center West, Thompson Rooms
        



























Office ofthe ViceChancellorfor HealthAffairs




Contact
 Medical Center Administration (MCA), 914 S. Wood St., Chicago, IL 60612
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts









UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses





















