






 Menu 

















 

 










 menu

 

  


Read the Report












 


Focusing on Urban Excellence:

      

      A Vision for Achieving Excellence at Chicago's Public Research University


 The report "Focusing  0n Urban Excellence: A Vision for Achieving  Excellence at Chicago’s Public Research University”  synthesizes UIC’s ongoing strategic thinking and planning  processes and describes the campus’s planning cycle.

 
This report was created in response to a request from University of Illinois Vice  President Christophe Pierre that each campus “complete a strategic plan to  guide academic investments and resource allocations and reallocation over the  next three years.”  We were asked to prepare  “a focused, action-oriented initiative . . . resulting in a small set of  strategic goals and tactical objectives for the next three years” and to 

  


Identify  goals with numerical targets.
Use  dashboard indicators to identify goals and set targets. 
Through  financial forecasting, identify ways to fund the planned investments for  achieving goals.
Build  on existing visioning and goal directed processes in place at each campus.
Consult  and engage with major stakeholders, including faculty leaders, the senates and  college deans.


In  response, we have provided an overview of ongoing initiatives resulting from a  wide range of planning processes that describes how we conducted the specific  exercise requested in Vice President Pierre’s letter, and the data from that  exercise. The final section highlights  three strategic goals that have emerged from this process, proposes a mechanism  for oversight of adherence to these goals, and offers suggestions for how the  UIC plan may be integrated into a larger university plan.
 
This report  was created through the work of a task force representing UIC’s many constituencies, including Distinguished Faculty, Faculty  Senate members, Deans, Vice Provosts, Academic  Professional and Civil Service  employees, students,  and .   
 

Focusing on Urban Excellence: A Vision for Achieving Excellence at Chicago's Public Research University Report

 



 
 
 

 |  |  | 

      Having problems accessing this site? 

      © 2015 Board of Trustees University of Illinois



