




















 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Self-Guided Tours









 




 










Did you know?



DEPTH







i
























Explore UIC on your own 

Self-Guided Publications
Sometimes our existing programs don't meet the needs of your schedule.  If that's the case, we encourage you to take advantage of the following resources.


Online Maps and Tours


 





Galleries / Museum Tours 

View some of UIC’s own collections and exhibits within our art galleries, museums and community centers.
Tours of Gallery 400
Founded in 1983, UIC’s Gallery 400 is one of the nation’s most vibrant university galleries, showcasing work at the leading edge of contemporary art, architecture, and design. Schedule your .
Tours of the Jane Addams Hull House
The Jane Addams Hull-House Museum serves as a dynamic memorial to social reformer Jane Addams, the first American woman to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, and her colleagues whose work changed the lives of their immigrant neighbors as well as national and international public policy. The Museum preserves and develops the original  site for the interpretation and continuation of the historic settlement house vision, linking research, education, and social engagement. Schedule your .
Midwest Nursing History Resource Center
The  developed out of an historical methodology research interest group that was part of the federally funded Nurse Faculty Research Development in the Midwest Project (1978). Its original promoters were doctorally prepared nurses who wished to establish a repository for significant documents relating to nursing history in the Midwest.
Centers for Culture and Social Change
Our Centers for Cultural Understanding and Social Change are dedicated to fostering greater acceptance and understanding, ensuring that students make the most of their experiences at UIC while also serving as a "second home" for students and a resource for educational materials, music, and art. Visit the  for contact information and hours of operation.
 










 







Live view from the top of University Hall 








Related Resources
































 










Office of Admissions
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161  
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.
 


 






 





















Copyright © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois







 

T









