




















 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Individual Visits









 




 




























Visit Programs


Get to know UIC with these visit options.


UIC Preview
Details

Offered: Select days, during the fall and spring semesters
Program Length: 4 hours


Campus tourHousing tourAcademic program informationScheduled activitiesAdmissions information 

UIC Preview is an opportunity to visit and hear from financial aid, housing and undergraduate colleges. This is a half-day program with campus and residence hall tours.


 




First Year Visit
Details

Offered: Weekdays and select weekends
Program Length: 2.5 hours


Campus tourHousing tourAdmissions information 

Admissions counselors provide an overview of UIC, admission requirements and financial planning for first-year students. The presentation is followed by a student-led campus tour.


 




Transfer Visit
Details

Offered: Weekdays and weeknights
Program Length: 2.5 hours


Campus tourHousing tourAdmissions information 

Admissions counselors provide an overview of UIC during the transfer visit program.Their presentation covers requirements, resources and helpful information about paying for college. Student-led campus tours take place after.
To schedule an individual appointment with an admissions counselor please call (312) 996-4350.


 










Departmental Visits


Customize your visit by joining specific colleges and departments—either alongside an Admissions tour, or as a standalone appointment.


Kinesiology and Nutrition

Academic program information 

The Department of Kinesiology and Nutrition in the College of Applied Health Sciences offers several information sessions for prospective students throughout the year. To view dates of upcoming sessions, visit the . For more information call (312) 996-4600.


 




College of Architecture, Design, & the Arts

Academic program information 

The UIC College of Architecture, Design, and the Arts (CADA) provides small group tours for students specifically interested in CADA programs on select Fridays. CADA Conversations (information session/tour) highlights the unique attributes of the college and offers an opportunity to see the relevant academic buildings, view student work, and ask any questions about the programs.
Individual and group visits may be coordinated before or after a UIC campus visit or Admissions program. If you have any specific questions about UIC's College of Architecture, Design, and the Arts, please email .


 




College of Business Administration

Academic program information 

Visit UIC's College of Business Administration to learn how we blend curriculum from six degree programs and eight minors with real-world experience in Chicago. Guests can request a  or schedule a .


 




College of Education

Academic program information 

The best way to learn about our programs in the College of Education is by visiting our campus. Meetings for individual and group visits are best when coordinated with an existing admissions program. 


 




College of Engineering

Academic program information 

Engineering's Undergraduate Student Affairs Office can be reached at (312) 996-3463 weekdays between the hours of 9 a.m.–4:30 p.m. Engineering recommends scheduling the visit before or after an Admissions program. Visits to specific departments in the College can be made by contacting one of the contacts listed on the .





College of Liberal Arts and Sciences

Academic program information 

UIC’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (LAS) has more than 40 majors and minors spanning the sciences, humanities, and social sciences. We also offer advising and support for 10 pre-health tracks. You can visit LAS in person by requesting a , or as part of a .


 




College of Pharmacy

Academic program information 

The College of Pharmacy Office of Student Affairs offers group and virtual information sessions for those interested in applying to the College of Pharmacy in the future. Individual advising appointments are also available. Topics include but aren't limited to admission requirements, application procedures, career opportunities and the interview process. If you have any questions about the College of Pharmacy, contact us at  .


 




College of Nursing

Academic program information 

Nursing offers information sessions for their BSN, graduate entry, and other programs on select dates throughout the year. Additionally, nursing provides over-the-phone admissions counseling at (312) 996-7800.


 




School of Public Health

Academic program information 

Public Health offers regular information sessions regarding their Bachelor’s program in Public Health. Students are also able to schedule individual appointments by contacting Melissa Tag at (312) 355-2536 or .


 




College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs

Academic program information 

CUPPA currently offers information sessions by appointment. Individual or group visits can be coordinated by contacting CUPPA's Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Affairs, Jaime Holland,   or .





Honors College / GPPA Sessions

Academic program information 

The UIC Honors College fosters a community of academic excellence, connects students with premier faculty, and promotes civic engagement and leadership opportunities. Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions (GPPA) allows a limited number of first year students per year to be admitted to UIC with guaranteed admission to one of several professional degree programs. Students follow a specific curriculum and meet established performance criteria to maintain guaranteed admission. Join representatives from these selective programs to learn more about the benefits and requirements for admission to each.
This event is designed to follow the general UIC 101 Admissions Session and campus tour. It is recommended to register for both sessions.


 






 







 


























 










Office of Admissions
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161  
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.
 


 






 





















Copyright © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois







 

T









