 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





About Us

















About Us
Student Leadership and Civic Engagement is committed to supporting students in their development as lifelong active citizens who have the skills and knowledge to build a more just and equitable world.




Our Mission

Provide student-centered co-curricular leadership and service programming that facilitates diverse and inclusive collaboration, self-awareness, and socially just community engagement.
Encourage personal and professional development, active citizenship, cultural humility, and transformational growth.





Our Vision




Our Vision

To engage every student on their journey from members of communities to active citizens and from exploring to transformed leaders.





Our Values

Diversity and Inclusion: Create a safe space in which we appreciate, honor, and highlight the value of diverse perspectives and experiences
Collaboration: Connect people and resources on-and off-campus in pursuit of a common cause.
Self-Awareness: Stimulate both knowledge and application of perspectives, strengths, and beliefs.
Social Justice: Encourage and pursue equity, fairness, and advocacy on both individual and institutional levels





Our Goals

Personal and Professional Development: Providing opportunities for individuals to develop competencies and capacities that can be applied in their daily lives.
Active Citizenship: Encouraging individuals to prioritize community in their choices, beliefs, and actions.
Transformational Growth: Engaging in meaningful experiences that encourage self-discovery.
Cultural Humility: Offering opportunities that encourage self-reflection, build the ability to adapt to differences, and increase cross-cultural understanding.




Program Highlights







            About SLCE
        









            Make Mondays Matter
        









            LeaderShape
        









            UIC Day of Service
        



























































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















