 

































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Leadership

















Leadership
Student Leadership and Civic Engagement believes that leadership is the process by which individuals facilitate positive social change. Anchored in the Social Change Model of Leadership Development, we believe that everyone can lead and create positive change at UIC and in the greater community. Our programs and workshops provide opportunities for students to explore and discover their personal style of leadership, while building skills to help them succeed in their academic and professional lives. We emphasize the connections between individuals, groups, and community, and focus on helping students link their passions to a greater cause.



Programs







            Flashpoint
        









            Ignite
        









            Catalyst
        









            Institute
        









            Awards (CSSLA)
        









            University Ambassadors
        









            Workshops
        







Social Change Model



The Social Change Model was built upon the following assumptions:

Leadership is concerned with effecting change on behalf of others and society.
Leadership is collaborative.
Leadership is a process rather than a position.
Leadership should be value-based.
All students (not just those that hold formal leadership positions) are potential leaders.
Service is a powerful vehicle for developing students’ leadership skills.

The Social Change Model approaches leadership as a purposeful, collaborative, values-based process that results in positive social change.
Source:
Higher Education Research Institute. (1996). A social change model of leadership development (Version III). Los Angeles: University of California Los Angeles Higher Education Research Institute. 




News










Posted on December 10, 2018



 







Posted on October 15, 2018



 







Posted on May 30, 2018



 






Posted on January 29, 2018



 







Posted on January 08, 2018



  

































































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















