 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Workshops
















Breadcrumbs



Workshops




Workshops
SLCE offers workshops for students and student organizations. Explore these sessions for ways to build your leadership skills.




StrengthsQuest
Focus on the positives and learn about how your individual talents can be turned into leadership strengths. This workshop allows students to take the acclaimed Gallup StrengthsFinder assessment and then explore their results through a series of interactive exercises. The StrengthsQuest curriculum offers groups the chance to focus in on individual development, group cohesion, change practices, and more.




Leadership Practices Inventory
Build toward your personal leadership best with Leadership Practices Inventory, an assessment tool that allows you to understand your leadership from multiple angles. Student Leadership and Civic Engagement will facilitate LPI for you or a group so you can successfully apply your results.




Learn to Lead
Learn to Lead brings leadership into UIC’s classrooms with engaging and active lessons on building leadership capacities. Our leadership curriculum includes units on foundations of leadership, the social change model of leadership development, StrengthsQuest leadership, conflict management, and social justice leadership. Lessons can be modified to accommodate any class size and/or focus.




Leadership on Demand
Bring Student Leadership and Civic Engagement to your organization! We offer leadership consultations for organizations addressing capacity-building, conflict strategies, vision- and goal-setting, officer transitions, and more. We can present workshops for your executive board or your full organization, or design a program unique to your organization’s needs.

































































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















