 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





MLK Day of Service
















Breadcrumbs



MLK Day of Service




MLK Day of Service
The Dr. MLK Jr. Day of Service takes place on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day every January. Since there is no class held on this day, we characterize it as “a day on, not a day off”. Efforts are made to collaborate with other Chicago events and community areas.
In January 2018, approximately 150 students, faculty, staff, and friends of the UIC community kicked off the semester a day early by coming together to serve at six sites across Chicago. Participants gave nearly 500 hours of service to organizations that included Asian Youth Services, Lincoln Park Community Shelter, Cornerstone Community Outreach, the Anti Cruelty Society, UI Hospital, and City Year’s site at Gale Community Academy. Through projects such as organizing libraries for youth, painting murals, serving meals, making toys for animals in shelters, and more, our UIC community provided over $12,000 in economic impact.
This year's Dr. MLK Jr. Day of Service will take place on January 21, 2019. 
Find details and register at .










































































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















