 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 




President’s Volunteer Service Award
















Breadcrumbs



President’s Volunteer Service Award




President’s Volunteer Service Award
The President’s Volunteer Service Award recognizes United States citizens and lawfully admitted, permanent residents of the United States who have achieved the required number of hours of service over a 12-month time period or cumulative hours over the course of a lifetime.




Criteria
Individuals that meet the criteria are eligible. 

Recipient(s) must be a United States citizen or a lawfully admitted permanent resident of the United States.
At UIC, awards are issued for service hours served within an academic school year or over the course of a lifetime. 
Awards are issued for volunteer service only; additional levels of participation with the organization (i.e., charitable support) are not a factor considered for the award.
Court-ordered or Dean of Student sanctioned community service does not qualify for the award.
Awards are issued by approved Certifying Organizations.





Eligibility at UIC

Hours are measured over an academic school year (Fall and Spring Semesters) and awards are designated based on cumulative hours. 
The awards are offered in multiple levels and are designed to recognize each milestone of your service achievement. Levels include bronze, silver, and gold; the highest honor, the President’s Lifetime Achievement Award, is for those who contribute more than 4,000 hours of service in their lifetime.
605 Commons




Hours by Award
Bronze
Silver
Gold




Young Adults (16-25)
100–174
175 –249
250+


Adults (26 and older)
100 –249
250 –499
500+


President’s Lifetime Achievement Award:
Individuals who have completed 4,000 or more hours in their lifetime




Along with the ultimate honor of presidential recognition, recipients will receive a personalized certificate, an official pin and a congratulatory letter from the president of the United States.

Submission of Hours
Only hours submitted and verified using UIC Connection will be used in awarding this honor.










































































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















