 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Service Leaders
















Breadcrumbs



Service Leaders




Service Leaders
The Service Leaders Program is a leadership development program centered on service.
Service Leaders take on responsibilities for planning the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service, the UIC Day of Service, Civic Engagement Week, and other volunteer events/programs (Make Mondays Matter & GIVE). Service Leaders attend weekly meetings with their cohort, and receive training and support to develop their leadership skills.
 





        Meet Our Committee Leaders
      





“The current political climate created a need for students to be informed and actively engaged in civic and political matters. This program has allowed me to provide the resources to young adults that allow them to be the change they want to see.”



  Marvely Camacho
  
               | 
              
  Committee Leader for Service Leaders, 2018-2019
  








“My ultimate goal is to motivate other students to reflect on their own personalities and discover how they can effect change where they see it’s needed.”



  Jeffrey González
  
               | 
              
  Committee Leader for Service Leaders, 2018-2019
  













































































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















