 

































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Civic Engagement

















Civic Engagement
Democracy only works when everyone participates. Student Leadership and Civic Engagement supports students in using their right to vote, and in actively contributing to their communities. Through resources and programs for voter registration, education, and participation, we support students in making their voices heard and being informed and active citizens.




Civic Engagement







            Registration
        









            Education
        









            Participation
        












Voter Registration
Register to vote through UIC’s partnership with TurboVote.
Already registered? Great! Use TurboVote to get important election reminders sent directly to you.








Definitions
Our Civic Engagement work is grounded in the following definitions:

“Civic engagement means working to make a difference in the civic life of our communities and developing the combination of knowledge, skills, values and motivations to make that difference. It means promoting the quality of life in a community, through both political and non-political processes” (Civic Responsibility in Higher Education, Ehrlich, 2000, p.vi).
“Civic learning and democratic engagement means promoting the education of students for engaged citizenship through democratic participation in their communities, respect and appreciation of diversity, applied learning, and social responsibility” (NASPA, ).
Community engagement is “Collaboration between institutions of higher education and their larger communities (local, regional/state, national, global) for the mutually beneficial exchange of knowledge and resources in a context of partnership and reciprocity” (Carnegie Classification for Community Engagement).





News










Posted on September 24, 2018



 







Posted on August 29, 2018



 




Posted on May 07, 2018



 









Posted on March 16, 2018



 







Posted on January 08, 2018



 







Posted on January 08, 2018



  





















































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















