 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Registration
















Breadcrumbs



Registration




Registration
Registering is the first step in exercising your right to vote.



Are you registered?Check Here



Not registered?



Register now! If you have an Illinois state ID or driver’s license, you can . If you don’t have an Illinois state ID or driver’s license, but you are a citizen who lives in Illinois, you can register to vote by mail by filling out .
For general information about voting and elections in Illinois, please visit: . For additional detailed information about voting and elections in Chicago, please visit: .




National Voter Registration Day



Each September, thousands of groups and individuals across the country take part in National Voter Registration Day. This non-partisan event works to register voters, mobilize volunteers, educate individuals, and encourage civic participation. During UIC’s National Voter Registration Day event, Student Leadership and Civic Engagement helps register voters and provides information about upcoming elections.





















































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















