 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Education
















Breadcrumbs



Education




Education
Taking a little bit of time to educate yourself about candidates and issues is an important step in being an active citizen. Use these resources to help you get started.









Upcoming Races in Illinois

Illinois General Election: Governor’s Race & Mid-term Elections
Register to vote by October 21, 2018.
Vote in the General Election on November 6, 2018.
Stay tuned for events and resources to learn about the candidates and any ballot measures.









Voter Guides: What issues and candidates are on the ballot?
Check out these non-partisan sites to find out more about what you will be voting on. There are also plenty of organizations that put out detailed voter guides aligned with their values. Find one that speaks to you and review their stances.








Know your Voting Rights



Constitution Day
Student Leadership and Civic Engagement is a proud sponsor of UIC’s Constitution Day, hosted by the Department of Political Science in partnership with other UIC civic organizations. Every September, the Constitution Day program includes a lecture from a distinguished civic scholar, a series of engagement opportunities offered by departments around campus, and the chance to network with students and professionals interested in government, law, and society.





















































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















