 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Participation
















Breadcrumbs



Participation




Participation
Make your voice heard by voting. Visit  to register to vote and/or sign up for election reminders. Remember that being an active citizen doesn’t stop there. Advocate for causes you care about and stay up-to-date with the actions your elected officials are taking. Hearing from constituents like you makes a difference in how elected officials prioritize their work and is one way to keep your elected officials accountable.









I’M ALL IN! ARE YOU? #UICVotes
1. Pledge to vote! Commit to voting. 
2. Register to Vote Visit  by October 21, 2018.
3. Participate in an Event Join us for Early Voting, Party at the Polls, or the Election Watch Party.
4. VOTE! Election Day is November 6, 2018








Voting
Upcoming Races in Illinois

Vote in the General election on November 6, 2018.
Stay tuned for events and resources to learn about the candidates and any ballot measures.


Make a plan for voting

Will you go before school? After work?
Are you taking the bus, walking, or driving? If you’re driving, where will you park?
If you’re voting by mail or voting absentee, when/where will you drop off or mail your ballot?

Ask your friends/family if they have a plan. If you have the same polling place, maybe you can go to vote together.





Voter Participation on Campus



UIC was recognized as the “Most Engaged” campus by the  for having one of the largest increases in student voter participation among colleges and universities in the 2016 election. In addition, the All IN Campus Democracy Challenge awarded UIC a bronze seal for achieving a student voting rate between 50%-59%. .
As part of the Challenge, UIC participated in the National Study of Learning, Voting, and Engagement, which showed an increase in UIC student voting rates of nearly 14% between the 2012 and 2016 elections.  for details on voter registration, voter participation, and comparisons to other institutions across the country.




Voter Participation on Campus



UIC is also designated as a  by the Campus Vote Project and NASPA. The program supports campuses in developing plans to facilitate student civic and electoral engagement, and awards the designation to institutions who have successfully committed to promoting democratic engagement on campus.





















































Quick Links










Tools










Resources












Button Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted Street, Suite 390 UIC Student Center East
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















