

















 
    










University of Illinois:cLERY COMPLIANCE











Safety and Security Reporting at UIC
The 2017-2018 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report (ASFSR) is published each year in compliance with the with federal law, known as the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (20 USC § 1092(f)), as amended by the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, and the State of Illinois Campus Security Enhancement Act. This report is part of UIC’s on-going effort to inform you of the safety programs and services available to the UIC community, the crimes that are reported, and the steps you can take to maintain a safe and secure campus. The 2017-2018 ASFSR is prepared by the .
The safety and well-being of everyone at UIC is our foremost concern. This is demonstrated through our ongoing prevention and awareness programs to eliminate criminal activity and to encourage students, faculty and staff to be responsible for both their own safety and the safety of others. These programs equip the University community to work collectively to prevent, protect, mitigate and respond to threats to our campus and the communities we serve. If you have any questions or would like more information on the Clery Act you may contact the UIC Clery Act Compliance Coordinator at  or 312-413-5363.


















UIC Clery Act Training Center for Campus Security Authorities


Blackboard Learn, UIC’s learning management system, is used to administer, track, and deliver CSA training content. This training will provide you with the basics of what you need to be aware of to meet UIC’s obligations under the Clery Act. To access Blackboard Learn, click the "" hyperlink and log-in using your  and . If you have any questions about Campus Security Authorities responsibilities or the training itself, please contact us at .






University of Illinois at Chicago
				   1200 West Harrison St.
				   Chicago, Illinois 60607
                       312-996-7000
				    Our CampusesRESOURCES			    © 2016 Board of Trustees, University of Illinois | 


