












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here



          Service Catalog        







 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 




UIC and the Academic Computing and Communications Center (ACCC) have made available, with the use of the IT technology fee, an extended laptop lending program called ACCCELL, the ACCC's Extended Laptop Loan. The goal of the ACCCELL program is to provide those students in need of this technology, a loaner laptop to use during their tenure at UIC to assist in their academic success.
Audience:  





 

The ACCC Service Desk offers general support services for ACCC services via email, walk-in, and phone. 
Audience: , , ,  





ACCC Satellite Services Helpdesk provides hands-on technical support for personal computers and other devices of UIC students, staff, and faculty. Support is available for connecting to campus networks, including , virus removal, and installing campus-licensed software.
Audience: , ,  





 

The UIC Active Directory (AD) is an implementation of Microsoft™ Active Directory. It provides integrated authentication and authorization to systems and services across the Chicago, Peoria, and Rockford UIC campuses.
Audience:  





The ADDA service is a set of premium features available for users of the ACCC Active Directory service.
Audience: , , ,  





Automatic Call Distribution (ACD) technology allows campus units to set up call centers, while the Auto Attendant allows a voicemail box to be divided to accept different messages for different people or to route incoming calls according to a caller's key presses.
Audience: , , ,  





 

Backup services allow campus staff and faculty to protect the files stored on computers and mobile devices.  These services are designed to allow for the restoration of data in case the file is lost or the computer is damaged in some way. 
Audience: , ,   





Blackboard Collaborate Web Conferencing is a virtual learning environment to facilitate real-time online learning. This Web conferencing system is accessed through Blackboard Learn and empowers Blackboard Learn instructors and TAs to create individual (and repeat Web Conferencing sessions) on their own with out requesting a session to be created or activated. 
Audience: , , ,  





 

 is an online file sharing and cloud content management service that works on PCs, Macs, mobile and tablet devices and provides access to your files from any location for collaboration with other University users or external parties.
Audience: , , , ,  ,  ,   





 

C-stop is a modern new space for students at UIC. For more information, please visit .
Locations
C-Stop BSB
	Behavioral Sciences Building
	1007 West Harrison Street
	BSB Learning Center, First Floor