












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here » 



















 


Related Answers



  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 



          Google Sites        




 allow you to create Web sites to share information with your choice of people. Individuals or team members can work together to upload group documents, add comments, group calendars, photos, and videos to the Site. See site examples and take a  of the Web site service.  explains how to use it. Note that you must have a  to create or edit a GoogleApps@UIC Site.
To Create a Site
To get started, go to the . You will create a Site name, Site category, and Site description.
To Build a Site
A full explanation of details ranging from customization tips to embedding objects to managing your account are available in the .
Changing Settings and Appearance
After your site has been created, click More actions in the upper right corner, then select Manage Site. You can use the Tabs on the left under Site Appearance to change the site's appearance. Google Sites has a lot of very nice templates. You can select one, if you wish, but if you don't like any of them, you can create your own. This will allow you to create a site that looks exactly like you want it to look. Use the Page Templates tab of Manage Sites.
Who can view my GoogleApps@UIC Site?
You can share your Site with as many or as few of people as you wish; it's up to you. When you create your Site, you will be asked who you would like your Site to "collaborate with". Here you can choose to share your Site with everyone, everyone in the GoogleApps@UIC domain, or specify individuals or  that you want to view your Site. When you are viewing the site, click More actions in the upper right corner, then select Manage Site and click the Sharing tab to edit privacy and sharing settings after the Site has been created.
Limitations on Site Contents
All Site content must adhere to University policy. These include the  and  It is the Site owner's responsibility to maintain and update Site content. If you discover inappropriate or out of date content, contact the Site owner directly to discuss the issue. If the problem persists, send a message to the .
 






Last updated: April 14, 2013


 
 




ACCC









 




Quick Links










 




Locations





 




Liaison Resources





 


Website



 









 




 © Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 



 
 
 

