












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here » 



          How do I use the UIC email address book with Outlook?        




Tags: , , , Service: , , The ACCC runs an LDAP server that you can use to look up the names and email addresses of people with NetID@uic.edu email addresses. This page explains how to use this LDAP server with Outlook 2010 and 2007.
Outlook 2010 / 2013
Setup
Open the File tab.
Select Account Settings, then select Account Settings below it.
Select the Address Book tab.
Select New.
Select Internet Directory Service (LDAP) then select Next.
For Server Information type: ldap.uic.edu
Then select More Settings... You will receive get a warning that you will have to restart Outlook before the directory service will work; dismiss the warning.
Select the Search tab, under Search Base select Custom and type or paste into the box:
ou=people,dc=uic,dc=edu
	then select Apply and click OK to save your changes.
Select Next then Finish to end the wizard.
Close Outlook and restart it.
To use UIC LDAP Directory Services
To use your new LDAP directory, open a new message. 
Select  the To: header. 
Make sure that lookup is selected from the Address Book dropdown list.
Begin to type either the first or last name of the person you want to send email to -- use whichever is more unique -- in the Search box and select Go.
Scroll down in the list of names returned and click to select the person. Select To: to add the name and address to your message.
Repeat as necessary.
Note: If you plan to use an address frequently you may want to add it to your personal address book. To do this, right click on the person you want to add and select Add to Outlook Contacts. Click the Add to: Personal Address Book button to add this person to your Outlook Contact List. This is really the way to go, because it will add all the information in the Properties to your contact list. And you can add a person that you already have in your Contact List; you can choose to update your existing listing with the new data.
Outlook 2007
Setup
Select Tools > Account Settings
Select Address Books then select New
Select Internet Directory Service (LDAP) then select Next
For Server name type: ldap.uic.edu
Select More Settings....
	You receive get a warning that you will have to restart Outlook before the directory service will work; click OK.
Select the Search tab. Under ;Search Base, select Custom and type:
ou=people,dc=uic,dc=edu
	then select Apply then OK to save your changes.
Select ;Next then Finish to end the wizard.
You may need to restart Outlook before you can use your new LDAP directory.
To use UIC LDAP Directory Services
To use your new LDAP directory, open a new message. 
Select the To: header. 
Make sure that lookup is selected from the Address Book dropdown list.
Begin to type either the first or last name of the person you want to send email to -- use whichever is more unique -- in the Search box and select Go.
Scroll down in the list of names returned and click to select the person. Select To: to add the name and address to your message.
Repeat as necessary.
Note: If you plan to use an address frequently you may want to add it to your personal address book. To do this, right click on the person you want to add and select Add to Outlook Contacts. Click the Add to: Personal Address Book button to add this person to your Outlook Contact List. This is really the way to go, because it will add all the information in the Properties to your contact list. And you can add a person that you already have in your Contact List; you can choose to update your existing listing with the new data.
Need help?


 Basic Email 
   

 Exchange 
 Email

Phone
312-413-0003
 
  

 G Suite (formerly Google Apps) 
 Email

Phone
312-413-0003
 
  

 Email and Calendaring 
 Email

Phone
312-413-0003
 
  

Last updated: September 21, 2016


Browse by tag









































































































































































































 


 








Choose service  
          ACCC Extended Laptop Loan (ACCCELL)    
          ACCC Service Desk    
          ACCCeSS Helpdesk    
          Active Directory    
          Active Directory Desktop Advantage (ADDA)    
          Automatic Call Distribution     
          Backups    
          Blackboard Collaborate    
          Box    
          C-stop    
          Classroom Equipment Lending    
          Classrooms    
          Collaboration Tools    
          Colocation Server Hosting    
          Computer Labs    
          Conferencing    
          Corporate Executive Board    
          Data Usage Monitoring    
          Database Services    
          Digital Signage    
          Directory Services    
          Email and Calendaring    
          Encryption    
          Endpoint Management    
          Equipment Lending    
          Event Logging    
          Event Support (Audio/Visual)    
          Events Calendar    
          Exchange    
          Faculty Computer Trade-In (FaCT)    
          G Suite (formerly Google Apps)    
          Helpdesk Services    
          High Performance Computing    
          Identity and Access Management    
          Instant Messaging    
          Learning Design and Development    
          Learning Environments    
          Learning Management System    
          Learning Technology Solutions    
          Lecture Capture    
          Listserv    
          Mass and Emergency Communications    
          Massmail    
          Media Conversion    
          Media Streaming    
          Microsoft IIS    
          Mobile Phones    
          Multimedia Production    
          Network    
          Network Data Moves    
          Network Filters    
          Network Operations Center    
          Network Security Vulnerability Scanner    
          Office 365    
          On-Site Support    
          ONE.UIC    
          Phone Services    
          Phones (Centrex)    
          Printing    
          Professional Development & Training    
          Recharge Stations    
          Request Tracker (RT)    
          Resident Hall Network (Res-Net)    
          ResPhone    
          Secure Computing Environment    
          Security    
          SharePoint    
          Single Sign On    
          SSL Certificates    
          StarTel    
          Surveys    
          Telecommunications     
          UIC Alert    
          UIC Mobile     
          UICalendar    
          Virtual Private Network (VPN)    
          Virtual Servers    
          Voicemail    
          VoIP    
          Web Services    
          Wiki    
          Wired Network    
          Wireless Network  



 
 


Related Answers



  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 
 




ACCC









 




Quick Links










 




Locations





 




Liaison Resources





 


Website



 









 




 © Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 



 
 
 

