












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here



          email        









Tags: , , Service: Note: We recommend using the Global Address List as your default address book.
If you open the Microsoft Office Outlook Address Book and do not see the name or e-mail address you are looking for, you might need to choose another address book from the Address Book list. If you find yourself choosing another address book frequently, you can change the default address book that is displayed when you open the Address Book.




 

 is a suite of tools used for communication and collaboration. It includes Gmail, Google Drive, Google Sites, Google Groups and Google Calendar.
Audience: , , ,   





 

ACCC provides Exchange email as a premium email and calendaring service available to faculty and staff. This premium service ensures a flawless integration with Outlook enhancing your management of calendar, email, contact, task, and note integration. Exchange has superior speed with large mailboxes, and much more up-to-date and functional web interface. Mobile computing is made easy with native support for Windows Mobile smart phones. Mobile devices are supported by using Exchange Active Sync, available on all major mobile manufacturers (Apple, Android, Windows, BlackBerry).
We currently provide the cloud based version of Exchange, which is known as Exchange Online.  All newly hired employees are automatically provisioned with Exchange Online accounts.
Audience: , , , ,  ,  ,   




Tags: , , , , Service: , , When you're going to be away from your email for an extended period of time, you can use the auto-reply filter to automatically respond to your incoming email to inform senders that you're away, when you'll be back, and perhaps let them know who they can get in touch with for help while you're gone. 




 is the Google-powered email service. Gmail can be accessed via the web client or desktop and mobile native clients. To get started using Gmail, you must .



Tags: , , Service: , , UIC students, faculty and staff have more than one 