












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here



          Popular content        

Primary tabs(active tab)

 










Every June, Blackboard courses that are over 3 years old are archived. Courses indicated as continuing, as work sites, and newer than three years to the present will be retained and excluded from the archiving process.
Courses will NOT be deleted, they will simply be removed from Blackboard and saved as files in an alternative place at UIC. Courses are available for restoration upon request. 

 about Blackboard Course Archiving
 




Tags: , , Service: Note: We recommend using the Global Address List as your default address book.
If you open the Microsoft Office Outlook Address Book and do not see the name or e-mail address you are looking for, you might need to choose another address book from the Address Book list. If you find yourself choosing another address book frequently, you can change the default address book that is displayed when you open the Address Book.




 

Blackboard Learn is a web application that allows the creation, administration, tracking, and delivery of digital content via course sites. This type of application is also referred to as a Learning Management System or LMS. At UIC, Blackboard Learn course sites are used in three main ways:
for the enhancement of face-to-face instruction,
as an important component of content delivery for blended courses, and
as a core element delivering and assessing learning in online courses. 
Audience: , , ,  ,   





 

 is a suite of tools used for communication and collaboration. It includes Gmail, Google Drive, Google Sites, Google Groups and Google Calendar.
Audience: , , ,   




Category: Last updated: Thursday, May 31, 2018 - 5:00pm   As previously communicated, all Webmail ( http://webmail.uic.edu)
   email users have been migrated to Exchange Online. The legacy Webmail
   email server is currently set to read-only mode and will be



Policy governing the use of university resources and technologies.
Revision Date: May 05, 2003



Tags: Service: Focused Inbox separates your inbox into two tabs—Focused and Other. Your most important emails are on the Focused tab while the rest remain easily accessible—but out of the way—on the Other tab.
Outlook 2016
 
Turn Focused Inbox on 

In Outlook 2016, select the View tab.


Select Show Focused Inbox.





 

ACCC provides Exchange email as a premium email and calendaring service available to faculty and staff. This premium service ensures a flawless integration with Outlook enhancing your management of calendar, email, contact, task, and note integration. Exchange has superior speed with large mailboxes, and much more up-to-date and functional web interface. Mobile computing is made easy with native support for Windows Mobile smart phones. Mobile devices are supported by using Exchange Active Sync, available on all major mobile manufacturers (Apple, Android, Windows, BlackBerry).
We currently provide the cloud based version of Exchange, which is known as Exchange Online.  All newly hired employees are automatically provisioned with Exchange Online accounts.
Audience: , , , ,  ,  ,   




Tags: , , , , , Service: , , , Every computer on a network has a unique identifier. Just as you would address a letter to send in the mail, computers use the unique identifier to send data to specific computers on a network. Most networks today, including all computers on the Internet, use the TCP/IP protocol as the standard for how to communicate on the network.




Tags: , , Service: Mac OS X has a built-in SSH client called Terminal which can be used to connect to remote servers. By default, Terminal.app is located in Applications > Utilities folder. Double-click on the icon to start the client.
Using Terminal for SSH
At the prompt type:

ssh NetID@hostname