












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 








 

You are here » 




















 






      Displaying 4 of 4 answers    

  
  

  

  

  
 
 


 



          Lecture Capture        




Category: Audience: , , , Overview UIC provides all faculty and instructors with a free and easy-to-use lecture capture tool called Echo360 ALP. Along with features provided by the tool, UIC faculty have access to support, learning workshops, and personal consultations.
The captures created from Echo360 ALP can be linked to Blackboard Learn and accessed via Echo 360.org
Features Echo360 provides faculty with two distinct lecture capture options that facilitate blended learning:
      1. Classroom Capture
      2. Personal Capture 

RECORD
Classroom Capture allows instructors to easily record lectures taught in specific classrooms and make them available to their students electronically via Blackboard learn or Echo360.org.
The system will capture all audio and video sources in the classroom’s multimedia system, including the installed PC, an instructor’s laptop, the built-in and wireless microphones, and more.
Personal Capture allows you to record captures using a stand-alone application that runs on Windows and Mac computers. Personal Capture allows instructors to record a webcam video or simply record audio and their computer screen simultaneously, which allows adding sound to PowerPoint presentations and other course material.

EDIT
All recorded captures can be modified in your dashboard and tailored for your lecture and student needs.
PUBLISH
Captures created from both of these options can be linked to Blackboard Learn and also accessed at Echo360.org. Echo360 ALP provides the instructor with reports on student activities such as viewing of Echoes and participation in discussions, and polling.
Recorded captures are kept on Echo 360’s servers for a period of four years before being removed.
HELP
Visit our  page to discover many popular topics to get started, present, analyse data, and more.
Requirements Classroom Capture recordings must be scheduled ahead of time, and can be either one-time events or repeating semester events. Captures are available within 3-6 hours of a one-hour long lecture.
The ACCC assists with scheduling automatic capture of theeast campus common use classrooms. For other classrooms, contact the appropriate department to have your lecture captured:



Personal Capture is available to all UIC faculty and instructors by request. Please note you must already have your course created via Blackboard before submitting your request.
For additional information, please consult the Echo Center Academic Staff Guide from the Echo System documentation page.
Cost There is no charge for this service.
Support Email

Phone
 Option 1
In person

Lecture Center E
			Room E112
Monday - Thursday 7:45am to 7:00pm, Friday 8:00 am to 5:00 pm during academic sessions

Further Information 

ACCC Service Level Agreement (SLA)
Service Request Fulfillment Time

Under 2 business days, unless in-person training/discussion is required, or escalation to the vendor is required.

Incident Resolution Time

Under 2 business days unless escalation to the vendor is required.

Service Availability
24x7
Maintenance Window(s)
Approved ACCC maintenance window(s): 
Service Notification Channel(s)
ACCC News and Alerts: 
			casters@uic.edu listserv of lecture capture administrators on campus.
			Faculty Notification System for targeted notifications for specific spaces.
Reviewed to Ensure SLA Meets Business Requirements

Provisional SLA - Currently under IT Governance review.

Date Reviewed

Provisional SLA - Currently under IT Governance review.

Tag: 

 








Choose service  
          ACCC Extended Laptop Loan (ACCCELL)    
          ACCC Service Desk    
          ACCCeSS Helpdesk    
          Active Directory    
          Active Directory Desktop Advantage (ADDA)    
          Automatic Call Distribution     
          Backups    
          Blackboard Collaborate    
          Box    
          C-stop    
          Classroom Equipment Lending    
          Classrooms    
          Collaboration Tools    
          Colocation Server Hosting    
          Computer Labs    
          Conferencing    
          Corporate Executive Board    
          Data Usage Monitoring    
          Database Services    
          Digital Signage    
          Directory Services    
          Email and Calendaring    
          Encryption    
          Endpoint Management    
          Equipment Lending    
          Event Logging    
          Event Support (Audio/Visual)    
          Events Calendar    
          Exchange    
          Faculty Computer Trade-In (FaCT)    
          G Suite (formerly Google Apps)    
          Helpdesk Services    
          High Performance Computing    
          Identity and Access Management    
          Instant Messaging    
          Learning Design and Development    
          Learning Environments    
          Learning Management System    
          Learning Technology Solutions    
          Lecture Capture    
          Listserv    
          Mass and Emergency Communications    
          Massmail    
          Media Conversion    
          Media Streaming    
          Microsoft IIS    
          Mobile Phones    
          Multimedia Production    
          Network    
          Network Data Moves    
          Network Filters    
          Network Operations Center    
          Network Security Vulnerability Scanner    
          Office 365    
          On-Site Support    
          ONE.UIC    
          Phone Services    
          Phones (Centrex)    
          Printing    
          Professional Development & Training    
          Recharge Stations    
          Request Tracker (RT)    
          Resident Hall Network (Res-Net)    
          ResPhone    
          Secure Computing Environment    
          Security    
          SharePoint    
          Single Sign On    
          SSL Certificates    
          StarTel    
          Surveys    
          Telecommunications     
          UIC Alert    
          UIC Mobile     
          UICalendar    
          Virtual Private Network (VPN)    
          Virtual Servers    
          Voicemail    
          VoIP    
          Web Services    
          Wiki    
          Wired Network    
          Wireless Network  



 
 


Service Categories




Choose category  
          Accounts and Passwords    
          Business Tools    
          Email, Calendar and Communications    
          Facilities and Equipment    
          Help    
          Learning Tools    
          Networking    
          Research    
          Security  



 
 






  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 
 




ACCC









 




Quick Links










 




Locations





 




Liaison Resources





 


Website



 


 




 © Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 



 
 
 

