












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here » 














 






      Displaying 15 of 15 answers    

  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 



          Wireless Network        




Category: Audience: , , , Overview The UIC community wireless network identifies itself as UIC-WiFi. Visitors to UIC may be eligible to use UIC-Guest or eduroam. UIC-WiFi uses WPA2 Enterprise Security. WPA2 Enterprise implements the 802.11i security standard, which includes government-grade AES encryption and 802.1x authentication. The specific authentication method that we use with PEAP-MSCHAPv2.
UIC-Guest is used by non-UIC visitors on our campus. To give users temporary Guest access please visit the .
eduroam is a World Wide wireless network. A user can connect to eduroam on UIC’s campus after first connecting at their home institution.
Features UIC-WiFi uses . WPA2 Enterprise implements the , which includes  and . The specific authentication method that we use with -.
Requirements Your valid  for user authentication. 
The wireless network's certificate, which ensures that your device is actually connecting to UIC-WiFi. You should download and then install the certificate over a non UIC-Wifi connection prior to connecting:
	The certificate should show as Issued to: InCommon RSA Server CA - if it doesn't then download and install the other certificate listed above.
	When installing you must Trust these certificates when prompted.
To be close enough to an . 
Applicability There are many devices that can connect to UIC-WiFi. Here are the ones that we have documented:

, , and .
iOS devices: , and .
 smart devices, including the .
Blackberries running OS 6.x -- including the Blackberry Playbook -- can connect to UIC-WiFi (and also ) because they support PEAP + EAP-MS-CHAP-v2 for inner link security.
Various types of Linux with many types of wireless cards can be configured to connect to UIC-WiFi. But please understand that the ACCC does not support connecting to UIC-WiFi with Linux. The UIC Linux Users Group has documentation and will help. Visit the , particularly the .
Currently, we know of no method for connecting Palm or Nokia devices that are not running Windows Mobile to the UIC-WiFi network. We apologize for the inconvenience.
Cost The UIC-WiFi public network may be used by members of the UIC community at no charge. Students who reside in UIC residence halls must pay the  charge; this part of the UIC-WiFi network is not public.
Vistors to UIC may be eligible to use either  or .
Support Email

Phone
312-413-0003
In person

 
Further Information Policies
Everyone using the UIC wireless networks must abide by the . There are additional bandwidth and file-sharing limitations on the networks, described in the 
ACCC Service Level Agreement (SLA)
Service Request Fulfillment Time

Standard connections are automatic with valid UIC credentials. Guest connections are activated within 24 hours after completion of the request form is submitted. Requesting a new access point is determined after an initial site survey with an ACCC Network Technician.

Incident Resolution Time

3-5 business days unless blueprints are required from Facilities Management.

Service Availability
24x7
Maintenance Window(s)
Approved ACCC maintenance window(s): 
Service Notification Channel(s)
ACCC News and Alerts: 
Reviewed to Ensure SLA Meets Business Requirements

Provisional SLA - Currently under IT Governance review.

Date Reviewed

Provisional SLA - Currently under IT Governance review.

Tag: 

 








Choose service  
          ACCC Extended Laptop Loan (ACCCELL)    
          ACCC Service Desk    
          ACCCeSS Helpdesk    
          Active Directory    
          Active Directory Desktop Advantage (ADDA)    
          Automatic Call Distribution     
          Backups    
          Blackboard Collaborate    
          Box    
          C-stop    
          Classroom Equipment Lending    
          Classrooms    
          Collaboration Tools    
          Colocation Server Hosting    
          Computer Labs    
          Conferencing    
          Corporate Executive Board    
          Data Usage Monitoring    
          Database Services    
          Digital Signage    
          Directory Services    
          Email and Calendaring    
          Encryption    
          Endpoint Management    
          Equipment Lending    
          Event Logging    
          Event Support (Audio/Visual)    
          Events Calendar    
          Exchange    
          Faculty Computer Trade-In (FaCT)    
          G Suite (formerly Google Apps)    
          Helpdesk Services    
          High Performance Computing    
          Identity and Access Management    
          Instant Messaging    
          Learning Design and Development    
          Learning Environments    
          Learning Management System    
          Learning Technology Solutions    
          Lecture Capture    
          Listserv    
          Mass and Emergency Communications    
          Massmail    
          Media Conversion    
          Media Streaming    
          Microsoft IIS    
          Mobile Phones    
          Multimedia Production    
          Network    
          Network Data Moves    
          Network Filters    
          Network Operations Center    
          Network Security Vulnerability Scanner    
          Office 365    
          On-Site Support    
          ONE.UIC    
          Phone Services    
          Phones (Centrex)    
          Printing    
          Professional Development & Training    
          Recharge Stations    
          Request Tracker (RT)    
          Resident Hall Network (Res-Net)    
          ResPhone    
          Secure Computing Environment    
          Security    
          SharePoint    
          Single Sign On    
          SSL Certificates    
          StarTel    
          Surveys    
          Telecommunications     
          UIC Alert    
          UIC Mobile     
          UICalendar    
          Virtual Private Network (VPN)    
          Virtual Servers    
          Voicemail    
          VoIP    
          Web Services    
          Wiki    
          Wired Network    
          Wireless Network  



 
 


Service Categories




Choose category  
          Accounts and Passwords    
          Business Tools    
          Email, Calendar and Communications    
          Facilities and Equipment    
          Help    
          Learning Tools    
          Networking    
          Research    
          Security  



 
 






  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 
 




ACCC









 




Quick Links










 




Locations





 




Liaison Resources





 


Website



 









 




 © Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 



 
 
 

