












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here



          Get Started!        




ACCC has the technology solutions to get you up and going! To get started, browse our  or follow the various links below for details on our most popular services.
Connect
Wireless Internet – the UIC-WiFi public network can be used by anyone with a valid UIC NetID and password. Visitors are eligible to use UIC-Guest or Eduroam WiFi. For help or support using WiFi, contact the ACCCeSS helpdesk.
Support
C-stop – a modern, flexible space to get help, print, work, or recharge your electronic devices.
C-more – a new mobile IT cart that is an extension of C-stop. Reserve it for events or schedule it to visit your department. Services include getting IT help, removing computer viruses, installing campus-licensed computer software, and much more: cstop.uic.edu
ACCCeSS Helpdesk – hands-on technical support for your personal computer and other devices. Come here to connect to UIC’s WiFi, remove a virus, or install campus-licensed software.
Classroom Support – support is available for all aspects of the general-use classrooms on the east side of campus, and training is available for use of the multimedia equipment installed in these rooms.
Computer Lab Reservations – several computer labs can be reserved for instruction or special events. Request a reservation by filling out a form online.
Instructional Technology Lab – One-one-one and group support for using computer technology, web-based solutions, and technology applications that enhance teaching and learning.
Report ACCC Emergencies – 24/7, year-round campus network, systems and services monitoring provided by Network Operations Center. Contact 312-413-8080 to report an outage. The status of ACCC's services can be viewed at .
Learn
Workshops – ACCC conducts workshops and training sessions on a number of topics including information technology, software, and web-related topics. Check the current workshop schedule online for upcoming training.
Video Tutorials – Lynda.com offers over a thousand video tutorials on leading software topics. Many tutorials are 7 or 8 hours long and are broken down into easy to manage 15-minute segments. The tutorials are taught by industry experts and are available 24/7 for convenient, self-paced learning. Start learning today by logging on to the Lynda.com UIC portal at .
Tools
Online Learning Management System – Blackboard Learn is an online learning tool that provides convenience and flexibility in teaching and taking classes. Instructors post course materials, assignments and tests to Blackboard Learn, allowing students to learn when and where they like.
Web Conferencing – Blackboard Collaborate offers a web conferencing service that allows for remote access to presentations, discussions, and virtual office hours.
Online File Collaboration – Box is an online file sharing and cloud content management service that provides access to your files from any location. This tool is perfect for collaborating with other University-users or external parties. Box works on PCs, Macs, and mobile and tablet devices.
Surveys – Qualtrics is a sophisticated, easy to use web-based service for creating, publishing, and analyzing survey data. Qualtrics offers advanced options and is highly customizable. Qualtrics can be used to collect sensitive data such as FERPA and HIPAA.
Equipment Loaning – multimedia equipment can be checked out for teaching and learning support in several campus locations. Examples include laptops, digital projectors, microphones, camcorders, audio recorders, headsets, iPads and clickers.
Lecture Capture – UICast allows instructors to easily record their lectures and post them automatically to Blackboard Learn and iTunesU for use on the web as a podcast or vodcast.
Software – a wide variety of free and discounted software is available through the UofI Webstore. Popular, free products include Office 2013, Windows 8 upgrade, and Symantec Antivirus, which are available for Windows and Mac-- Office 2013 may also be purchased for home use.
Streaming Media – stream audio and video media content securely through an easy-to-use interface for public consumption or private viewing.
For more information or assistance:
Call:
312-413-0003
Email:
consult@uic.edu
In-person:
C-stop or ACCCeSS Helpdesk


 








Choose service  
          ACCC Extended Laptop Loan (ACCCELL)    
          ACCC Service Desk    
          ACCCeSS Helpdesk    
          Active Directory    
          Active Directory Desktop Advantage (ADDA)    
          Automatic Call Distribution     
          Backups    
          Blackboard Collaborate    
          Box    
          C-stop    
          Classroom Equipment Lending    
          Classrooms    
          Collaboration Tools    
          Colocation Server Hosting    
          Computer Labs    
          Conferencing    
          Corporate Executive Board    
          Data Usage Monitoring    
          Database Services    
          Digital Signage    
          Directory Services    
          Email and Calendaring    
          Encryption    
          Endpoint Management    
          Equipment Lending    
          Event Logging    
          Event Support (Audio/Visual)    
          Events Calendar    
          Exchange    
          Faculty Computer Trade-In (FaCT)    
          G Suite (formerly Google Apps)    
          Helpdesk Services    
          High Performance Computing    
          Identity and Access Management    
          Instant Messaging    
          Learning Design and Development    
          Learning Environments    
          Learning Management System    
          Learning Technology Solutions    
          Lecture Capture    
          Listserv    
          Mass and Emergency Communications    
          Massmail    
          Media Conversion    
          Media Streaming    
          Microsoft IIS    
          Mobile Phones    
          Multimedia Production    
          Network    
          Network Data Moves    
          Network Filters    
          Network Operations Center    
          Network Security Vulnerability Scanner    
          Office 365    
          On-Site Support    
          ONE.UIC    
          Phone Services    
          Phones (Centrex)    
          Printing    
          Professional Development & Training    
          Recharge Stations    
          Request Tracker (RT)    
          Resident Hall Network (Res-Net)    
          ResPhone    
          Secure Computing Environment    
          Security    
          SharePoint    
          Single Sign On    
          SSL Certificates    
          StarTel    
          Surveys    
          Telecommunications     
          UIC Alert    
          UIC Mobile     
          UICalendar    
          Virtual Private Network (VPN)    
          Virtual Servers    
          Voicemail    
          VoIP    
          Web Services    
          Wiki    
          Wired Network    
          Wireless Network  



 
 


Service Categories




Choose category  
          Accounts and Passwords    
          Business Tools    
          Email, Calendar and Communications    
          Facilities and Equipment    
          Help    
          Learning Tools    
          Networking    
          Research    
          Security  



 
 






  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 
 




ACCC









 




Quick Links










 




Locations





 




Liaison Resources





 


Website



 









 




 © Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 



 
 
 

