












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here » 















 


 



          UICalendar Client Download        




Note: As of January 2012: The Oracle Calendar native client cannot run on Mac OS X 10.7 Lion.
Mac users: If the download files don't download when you double-click on the download links, control-click on the download links and select Download Linked File As  or something similar (each Mac browser words it a bit differently).
Plus PDA and mobile phone users, including Blackberry,  should consider using  for syncing with UICalendar. It works quite well if your phone or PDA is supported.
iPhone users: The new version of Oracle Outlook Connector supports iPhone sync with iTunes, on Windows, the only Oracle Calendar sync that works so far with iPhones. It does work. However, you have to use Windows. :) There are other ways. See .

	Desktop clients

				Operation System

				Download

				Windows



				Mac OS X (not 10.7 Lion)



				Mac Classic (Mac OS 9)



				Linux



				Solaris



	Mobile clients

				Mobile Devices

				Windows

				Mac Classic

				Mac OSX

				Oracle Calendar Sync for PalmOS

New May 30, 2007:
See also  below






				Oracle Calendar Sync for PocketPC



				N/A

				N/A

				iPhone

iPhone users: See .


Oracle Mobile Sync

				Sync PDAs and Cell Phones wirelessly via the Web; see .

	Oracle Outlook Connector
If you are using an ACCC basic email account, be sure to map the Sent Items, Deleted Items, Drafts, and Junk E-Mail folders to mail/Drafts, mail/Sent Items, and so on. If you don't, they won't be available in Webmail.
Note added April, 2008: Now you can -- and should -- change Outlook Connector to login using your NetID as you do in all other UICal clients. It makes Outlook Connector work a lot better.

Newer Windows and Outlook 2003 and 2007
 ().
This version also supports iPhone sync, with Outlook 2003 or Outlook 2007. I have heard of people that this works for. 

