












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here » 



          How do I display a UICalendar calendar on an iPhone or iPad?        




Tags: , Service: The most flexible way to access UICalendar on your iPhone is still to use Safari on the iPhone to use the . However, other ways of using UICalendar from the iPhone are getting a lot better now. By far the easiest way is to import your UICalendar calendar into iCal on the your iOS device. This gives you everything, including alarms. The only thing that is missing is that you can't enter new events on the iPhone and upload them to UICalendar. Importing your UICal calendar into iCal requires at least iOS 3.0. The instructions on how to subscribe your iOS device to UICalendar are below.
There are other ways to use UICalendar on the iPhone that do give you two-way sync. Two-way means that it syncs both ways -- brings changes from UICal to iCal on the iPhone and changes from iCal to UICal.)
 syncs your whole UICal calendar, both ways, but doesn't use iCal on the iPhone.
And two ways to sync the iPhone with computer calendar software that are both two-way.
You can sync the iPhone with Outlook Connector and iTunes on Windows personal computers. It is now quite easy. See PC Magazines's  for instructions. (Which are not limited to Vista or 3G iPhones; you can use Outlook 2003 or 2007, but not Outlook 2010.) Apple's Web site has a lot of troubleshooting information.

Send email to  if you need help setting any of these up.
Subscribe to UICalendar
You must be connected to the Internet to do this. Create a subscription link using . This link is one way -- data comes down from UICalendar only. Any changes you make in iCal on the the iPhone will not be transferred back to UICalendar.
Tap Settings then Mail, Contacts, Calendar then Add Account then Other then Add subscribed calendar.
Paste the subscription link Server field. To prevent a recurring problem with missing repeating events, append &compat=br at the end of the link.
Tap Next.
Rename the calendar if needed.
At this point, your iPhone/iPad/iPod Touch will attempt to access your calendar.
To set how often the calendar will be refreshed, tap Settings then Mail, Contacts, Calendar then Fetch New Data and select the desired frequency.
No authentication is needed and alarms are synced, but you can't change when they will go off from the iPhone.
       
Need help?


 UICalendar 
 Email

Phone
312-413-0003
 
  

Last updated: August 06, 2013


Browse by tag









































































































































































































 


 








Choose service  
          ACCC Extended Laptop Loan (ACCCELL)    
          ACCC Service Desk    
          ACCCeSS Helpdesk    
          Active Directory    
          Active Directory Desktop Advantage (ADDA)    
          Automatic Call Distribution     
          Backups    
          Blackboard Collaborate    
          Box    
          C-stop    
          Classroom Equipment Lending    
          Classrooms    
          Collaboration Tools    
          Colocation Server Hosting    
          Computer Labs    
          Conferencing    
          Corporate Executive Board    
          Data Usage Monitoring    
          Database Services    
          Digital Signage    
          Directory Services    
          Email and Calendaring    
          Encryption    
          Endpoint Management    
          Equipment Lending    
          Event Logging    
          Event Support (Audio/Visual)    
          Events Calendar    
          Exchange    
          Faculty Computer Trade-In (FaCT)    
          G Suite (formerly Google Apps)    
          Helpdesk Services    
          High Performance Computing    
          Identity and Access Management    
          Instant Messaging    
          Learning Design and Development    
          Learning Environments    
          Learning Management System    
          Learning Technology Solutions    
          Lecture Capture    
          Listserv    
          Mass and Emergency Communications    
          Massmail    
          Media Conversion    
          Media Streaming    
          Microsoft IIS    
          Mobile Phones    
          Multimedia Production    
          Network    
          Network Data Moves    
          Network Filters    
          Network Operations Center    
          Network Security Vulnerability Scanner    
          Office 365    
          On-Site Support    
          ONE.UIC    
          Phone Services    
          Phones (Centrex)    
          Printing    
          Professional Development & Training    
          Recharge Stations    
          Request Tracker (RT)    
          Resident Hall Network (Res-Net)    
          ResPhone    
          Secure Computing Environment    
          Security    
          SharePoint    
          Single Sign On    
          SSL Certificates    
          StarTel    
          Surveys    
          Telecommunications     
          UIC Alert    
          UIC Mobile     
          UICalendar    
          Virtual Private Network (VPN)    
          Virtual Servers    
          Voicemail    
          VoIP    
          Web Services    
          Wiki    
          Wired Network    
          Wireless Network  



 
 


Related Answers



  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 
 




ACCC









 




Quick Links










 




Locations





 




Liaison Resources





 


Website



 









 




 © Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 



 
 
 

