












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here » 



          How do I subscribe to my UICalendar?        




Tags: , , Service: You can "import" or "subscribe" your UICalendar calendar into any calendar that supports iCal calendar feeds. You can do this once, to move from UICalendar to another calendaring system, or you can use it just to display your UICal calendar in another calendar program or device.
You use the  to do this. With this utility, you can create an iCalendar Web URL, which allows you to copy a "snapshot" of your UICalendar agenda into the other calendar program. The subscription link (known as an iCalendar feed) can be used to view the calendar, including events and alarms, in a variety of desktop and mobile clients -- Google Calendar, iPhone, iPad, Apple iCal, Microsoft Outlook, Mozilla Sunbird, Mozilla Thunderbird with Lightning extension and others. 
Whenever you or your calendar software go to your personal UICal iCaendarl URL, it returns your UICal data, as it is at that very moment, in iCal format. iCal format is the most widely used import  format for calendar data.
Note that this copy is one way: UICalendar into iCal, Google Calendar, or whatever, though when you  into your other calendar software, the other software should automatically go back to the UICal Web link on a regular basis to get a new, updated copy of your UICal calendar. We do not have the ability to bring changes made in the other calendar program back into UICalendar using the UICal iCal Web link.

	Sharing Your Calendar
Using the URL after it has been created does not require authentication. For this reason, it can be used to share your calendar with other people. Unless you want the other person to see everything that is in your calendar, you might want to create a public link, which shows only events or details on your calendar that are open to any user on UICal.

	To create your personal UICal iCalendar URL

		Visit  (authentication with UIC NetID and password required)

		In the section Create a new link to your calendar, select the type of URL that you want to create: calendar (which includes everything in your calendar) or public (which only includes the events marked in UICalendar as public). 

		Click on Create Link.
Your UICal iCal URL will be in the format:

http://ical.uical.uic.edu/uicalbin/uicalTOical?c=nnnnnnnnnnnnTo disable your URL's access to your UICal calendar at any time, delete the link using .

	One-Time or Recurring?
There are two ways to use your UIC iCal URL:

		Subscribe to the URL if you want to continue to use UICal and want to have your UICal data automatically imported into the other calendar program on a regular basis.

		Or import the data into your other program if you want to move from UICal to another calendaring system.
Both are explained below.

Recurring Subscription
Do you want your UICalendar calendar to be brought into another calendar program and have the changes that you make in UICalendar be reflected in your other calendar? You can do this too, if your "subscribe" to your UICalendar iCalendar URL. In this case, the default date range: &back=30&forward=90 (30 days in the past to 90 days in the future) will probably do, but you should add &compat=br to the end of the URL.
Google's instructions on how to 


	One-Time Import
Do you just want to copy your UICalendar into another calendar program and not use UICalendar anymore? You can do it with your iCal link, if you download your UICalendar data into an .ics file, and "import" that file into.

		Open your favorite Web browser and paste your personal UICal iCal subscription link in the address box and press Enter.

				Remember that if you are having trouble with missing repeating events, add the following to the end of the UICal iCal Web link: &compat=br

				And specify a date range for the time that you want your data from, for example: &startdate=1/1/2008&enddate=1/1/2015

				For example: http://ical.uical.uic.edu/uicalbin/uicalTOical?c=566861224616075&compat=br&startdate=1/1/2008&enddate=1/1/201


		A download dialog box will open for a file named yourNetID.ics, or for Grace Hopper, gmhopper.ics.

				You might have the option in the dialog box to open it directly into your calendar program.

				Or save your file and

						Double-click on the file's icon to open it in your calendar program.

						Or, open your calendar program and use its Import function. 


For example, Google's (simple) instructions for importing your .ics file Google Calendar:  .
You might have to play with the date range or break the import up into sections if the resulting .ics file is too big for your new calendar program.

	Common problems
Some calendar importers require that the link include the extension .ics. If the link doesn't work, try adding .ics to the end of your UICal iCal URL. 
Make sure you are pasting the entire URL, including http://
If you are not seeing your repeating events, try adding &compat=br to the end of the link.
Need help?


 UICalendar 
 Email

Phone
312-413-0003
 
  

Last updated: September 21, 2016


Browse by tag









































































































































































































 


 








Choose service  
          ACCC Extended Laptop Loan (ACCCELL)    
          ACCC Service Desk    
          ACCCeSS Helpdesk    
          Active Directory    
          Active Directory Desktop Advantage (ADDA)    
          Automatic Call Distribution     
          Backups    
          Blackboard Collaborate    
          Box    
          C-stop    
          Classroom Equipment Lending    
          Classrooms    
          Collaboration Tools    
          Colocation Server Hosting    
          Computer Labs    
          Conferencing    
          Corporate Executive Board    
          Data Usage Monitoring    
          Database Services    
          Digital Signage    
          Directory Services    
          Email and Calendaring    
          Encryption    
          Endpoint Management    
          Equipment Lending    
          Event Logging    
          Event Support (Audio/Visual)    
          Events Calendar    
          Exchange    
          Faculty Computer Trade-In (FaCT)    
          G Suite (formerly Google Apps)    
          Helpdesk Services    
          High Performance Computing    
          Identity and Access Management    
          Instant Messaging    
          Learning Design and Development    
          Learning Environments    
          Learning Management System    
          Learning Technology Solutions    
          Lecture Capture    
          Listserv    
          Mass and Emergency Communications    
          Massmail    
          Media Conversion    
          Media Streaming    
          Microsoft IIS    
          Mobile Phones    
          Multimedia Production    
          Network    
          Network Data Moves    
          Network Filters    
          Network Operations Center    
          Network Security Vulnerability Scanner    
          Office 365    
          On-Site Support    
          ONE.UIC    
          Phone Services    
          Phones (Centrex)    
          Printing    
          Professional Development & Training    
          Recharge Stations    
          Request Tracker (RT)    
          Resident Hall Network (Res-Net)    
          ResPhone    
          Secure Computing Environment    
          Security    
          SharePoint    
          Single Sign On    
          SSL Certificates    
          StarTel    
          Surveys    
          Telecommunications     
          UIC Alert    
          UIC Mobile     
          UICalendar    
          Virtual Private Network (VPN)    
          Virtual Servers    
          Voicemail    
          VoIP    
          Web Services    
          Wiki    
          Wired Network    
          Wireless Network  



 
 


Related Answers



  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 
 




ACCC









 




Quick Links










 




Locations





 




Liaison Resources





 


Website



 









 




 © Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 



 
 
 

