












Academic Computing and Communications Center  


 




Search form

Search 





 



 



Main menu







  
 

You are here » 



          How do I share my UICalendar other people on the Web?        




Tags: Service: Global Agendas -- Sharing Your UICal Calendar with Anyone. Global Agenda viewing is an option of UICal on the Web that allows you to send a URL to anyone you want -- they do not have to have to have a UICal account and they may not have anything to do with UIC at all -- that will allow them read-only access to a view of the times that you are busy.
People viewing your Global Agenda Web page will be able to read the text of agenda items that you mark items with the access level of Public. Non-Public items will just appear as "Busy".
Turn Your Global Agenda On
First you have to turn your UICal Global Agenda on:
Login to UICal on the Web () and click the Edit Preferences (second icon on the right side of the main Toolbar) link.
Click the Security tab/link, click Allow Global Agenda Viewing, and click OK.
Now you've turned on the Global Agenda.
You also need to check to make sure the time zone displayed by UICal on the Web will be correct:
Click the Edit Preferences (second icon on the right side of the main Toolbar) link.
On the General tab/link, select some time zone other than the right one, say Mexico's, and click OK. (Yes, you read correctly. It's a bug. Oracle knows about it; this is the official fix for it.)
Now go back and click the Edit Preferences (second icon on the right side of the main Toolbar) link.
On the General tab/link select the right time zone, which is CST6CDT, Central Daylight Time. (If you don't know what time zone to choose, click the question mark beside the pulldown box and look it up.)
Sharing Your Global Agenda
When you get back to your UICal Daily, Weekly, or Monthly View, you will see a link on the right side above the tool bar saying E-mail Agenda which opens a Web page that allows you to do just that.
Enter email address(s) -- separated by commas -- in the Enter e-mail address: box, then a Message text, if you wish, and click Send. Your friend will receive an email message with a long, strange URL that will give them a read-only look at your busy times with a Normal access level and a link that opens an email message to you.
This URL will not expire; it will always display your current agenda. Send an email message to yourself to get the URL and you can use it in a Web page, if you want.
Note that the Global Agenda will give people View access to agenda items with an access level of Public. (That means that anyone that you give the URL to will be able to read the text of those agenda items.)
Need help?


 UICalendar 
 Email

Phone
312-413-0003
 
  

Last updated: January 30, 2013


Browse by tag









































































































































































































 


 








Choose service  
          ACCC Extended Laptop Loan (ACCCELL)    
          ACCC Service Desk    
          ACCCeSS Helpdesk    
          Active Directory    
          Active Directory Desktop Advantage (ADDA)    
          Automatic Call Distribution     
          Backups    
          Blackboard Collaborate    
          Box    
          C-stop    
          Classroom Equipment Lending    
          Classrooms    
          Collaboration Tools    
          Colocation Server Hosting    
          Computer Labs    
          Conferencing    
          Corporate Executive Board    
          Data Usage Monitoring    
          Database Services    
          Digital Signage    
          Directory Services    
          Email and Calendaring    
          Encryption    
          Endpoint Management    
          Equipment Lending    
          Event Logging    
          Event Support (Audio/Visual)    
          Events Calendar    
          Exchange    
          Faculty Computer Trade-In (FaCT)    
          G Suite (formerly Google Apps)    
          Helpdesk Services    
          High Performance Computing    
          Identity and Access Management    
          Instant Messaging    
          Learning Design and Development    
          Learning Environments    
          Learning Management System    
          Learning Technology Solutions    
          Lecture Capture    
          Listserv    
          Mass and Emergency Communications    
          Massmail    
          Media Conversion    
          Media Streaming    
          Microsoft IIS    
          Mobile Phones    
          Multimedia Production    
          Network    
          Network Data Moves    
          Network Filters    
          Network Operations Center    
          Network Security Vulnerability Scanner    
          Office 365    
          On-Site Support    
          ONE.UIC    
          Phone Services    
          Phones (Centrex)    
          Printing    
          Professional Development & Training    
          Recharge Stations    
          Request Tracker (RT)    
          Resident Hall Network (Res-Net)    
          ResPhone    
          Secure Computing Environment    
          Security    
          SharePoint    
          Single Sign On    
          SSL Certificates    
          StarTel    
          Surveys    
          Telecommunications     
          UIC Alert    
          UIC Mobile     
          UICalendar    
          Virtual Private Network (VPN)    
          Virtual Servers    
          Voicemail    
          VoIP    
          Web Services    
          Wiki    
          Wired Network    
          Wireless Network  



 
 


Related Answers



  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
 
 


 
 




ACCC









 




Quick Links










 




Locations





 




Liaison Resources





 


Website



 









 




 © Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 



 
 
 

