














 » Campus Security AuthoritiesThe Clery Act
The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) (as amended), is a federal mandate requiring all institutions of higher education (IHEs) that participate in the federal student financial aid program to disclose information about crime on their campuses and in the surrounding communities. The Clery Act affects virtually all public and private IHEs and is enforced by the U.S. Department of Education (ED). The Clery Act requires colleges and universities:

Publish an annual report disclosing campus security policies and documenting three calendar years of select campus crime statistics.
Provide crime statistics to the U.S. Department of Education.
Issue timely warnings about Clery Act crimes which pose a serious or ongoing threat to students and employees.
Keep a public crime log accessible to the public. 
Uphold basic rights for survivors of sexual assault.
Pay fines to the U.S. Department of Education for failure to comply with the Clery Act.

The Clery Act is named in memory of 19-year-old Lehigh University freshman Jeanne Ann Clery, who was raped and murdered on April 5, 1986, while asleep in her residence hall room. Her parents, Connie and Howard Clery, later discovered that students hadn't been told about 38 violent crimes on the Lehigh campus in the three years before her murder. They joined with other campus crime victims and persuaded Congress to enact this law, which was originally known as the "Crime Awareness and Campus Security Act of 1990." A 1998 amendment formally named the law in memory of Jeanne Clery.
 
Compliance with the Clery Act
The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report (ASFSR) is published each year in compliance with the Clery Act, as amended by the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (VAWA), as well as the State of Illinois Campus Security Enhancement Act. 
To view the most recent Annual Security and Fire Safety Report, click on the link in the top-right corner of the page.
This report is part of UIC’s on-going effort to inform you of the safety programs and services available to the UIC community, the crimes that are reported, and the steps you can take to maintain a safe and secure campus. The 2017-2018 ASFSR is prepared by the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Administrative Services: Office of Preparedness and Response, incorporating data and information provided by the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs, the Office of Public and Government Affairs, the UIC Police Department, the Office of the Dean of Students, the Environmental Health and Safety Office, the Office of Preparedness and Response, Campus Housing, the Office for Access and Equity, the Wellness Center, UIC campus security authorities and law enforcement agencies whose jurisdictions include UIC properties.
The report will provide you with information on safety and security at each of the University of Illinois at Chicago campuses: Chicago Campus East & Chicago Campus West, Peoria Regional Campus, the Quad Cities Regional Campus, Rockford Regional Campus, Springfield Regional Campus, and Urbana-Champaign Regional Campus. It includes statistics for 2015, 2016, and 2017 concerning reported crimes that occurred: on each campus; in certain non-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by UIC; and on public property within, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from, each campus. Statistics for the current calendar year (2018) will appear in next year’s report. The report also includes policies and procedures on campus safety and security, such as alcohol and drug abuse prevention; crime prevention; the reporting of crimes, arrests, disciplinary referrals, sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking; and other matters.
Please do not hesitate to contact the Office of Preparedness and Response Clery Help Desk at cleryhelpdesk@uic.edu, if you have questions. We welcome your practical insights that can inform decisions about program priorities and UIC community actions. We look forward to sharing in your ingenuity and creativity as we press forward in our commitment to campus safety and security
 



Campus Security Authorities


  


What Is The Role Of A Campus Security Authority (CSA)?




Under the Clery Act, CSAs are required to report Clery Act qualifying
crimes which occurred on campus, in public areas bordering campus, and in
certain non-campus buildings owned or controlled (leased) by the University.
CSAs should only report those crimes that have not been previously reported to
UICPD or another UIC CSA. The intent of including non-law enforcement personnel
in the CSA role is to acknowledge that some community members and students, in
particular, may be hesitant about reporting crimes to the police, but may be
more inclined to report incidents to other campus-affiliated individuals. To
review information on the Clery Act incident occurrence locations that are
reportable, please refer to Geography page.
 
Reportable Clery Act Crimes
Criminal Offenses: Criminal homicide, including murder and non-negligent manslaughter, and manslaughter by negligence; sexual assault, including rape, fondling, incest, and statutory rape; robbery; aggravated assault; burglary; motor vehicle theft; and arson.
Hate Crimes: Any of the above-mentioned offenses, and any incidents of larceny-theft, simple assault, intimidation, or destruction/damage/vandalism of property that were motivated by bias. 
VAWA Offenses: Any incidents of domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. (Note that sexual assault is also a VAWA offense but it is included in the criminal offense category for Clery Act reporting purposes). 
Arrests and Referrals for Disciplinary Action for Weapons-Carrying, possessing, etc. law violations; drug abuse violations; and liquor law violations.



 




CSA Crime Reporting
Ensure: 



When a crime is reported to a CSA, the CSA should first ensure the
safety of the CSA and the reporting party. In an emergency or imminent danger,
the CSA should call UICPD.
Inform: The CSA should inform the reporting party of the CSAs obligations as a federally mandated reporter. (See "What Do I Tell A Reporting Party?" below.)
Refer: The CSA should refer the reporting party to appropriate rights and options, and victim advocacy services.

The reporting party has the option to contact police, but should not be pressured to do so if they choose not to. If the CSA knows first-hand that the incident has already been reported to UICPD or another local law enforcement agency, the CSA is not obligated to complete and submit a CSA Incident Reporting Form (located at clery.uic.edu). However, if the reporting party says they will file a police report with UICPD, leaving the CSA with no firsthand knowledge and confirmation that a police report was filed, then the CSA must still complete and submit a CSA Incident Reporting Form.


The reporting party has the option to seek medical attention. CSAs should seek medical help for victims, if a victim is unable.


The reporting party has the option to self-report anonymously through the Anonymous (or Voluntary) Incident Reporting Form (located at clery.uic.edu), or confidentially to a confidential victim advocate with the Campus Advocacy Network.


Additionally, UIC provides information regarding resources to survivors of sexual misconduct, available at .

Report: If the reported crime is made in good faith, meaning that there is reasonable basis for believing that the information is not rumor or hearsay, then the crime is Clery reportable. CSAs, when interacting with the reporting party, need to gather incident information that would provide sufficient detail to properly classify the incident. The reporting person is encouraged to assist the CSA in populating the CSA Incident Reporting Form. Reporting party identifying information should only be included in the CSA Incident Reporting Form if the reporting party is willing to provide it (see Anonymous Reporting section below). CSAs should not investigate the crime or attempt to determine whether a crime, in fact, took place. When in doubt, a CSA Incident Reporting Form should be completed and submitted!
What if Reporting Person Wishes to Remain Anonymous?



At the request of the reporting party, identifying information may be
excluded from the CSA Incident Reporting Form (e.g., the names, initials, or
contact information of the reporting party). However, if the incident involves
sexual harassment or misconduct (e.g., sexual assault, dating violence,
domestic violence, or stalking), according to federal law, identifying
information must be forwarded to the Title IX Coordinator (the UIC Title IX Coordinator
is notified when incidents of sexual misconduct are reported through the CSA
or Anonymous (or Voluntary) Incident Reporting Forms located on the
clery.uic.edu homepage).
What Should CSAs Tell A Reporting Party?



The following is a sample of what a CSA can tell a reporting party who
comes to a CSA to report an incident: “As part of my position at UIC, I
am federally mandated to report of this incident to campus public safety
officials for annual reporting on crime statistics. If you request anonymity,
identifying information may be excluded from the report (such as your name and
contact information, etc.). I’ll only report the information you provide.
However, if the incident involves sexual harassment or misconduct, identifying
information must be reported to UIC’s Title IX Coordinator. If you'd prefer to
speak with a confidential advisor or advocate, I can connect you with the
Campus Advocacy Network (CAN). Do you have any questions? Would you like to
help me fill it out?”


Other CSA Reporting Responsibilities 



Travel & Geography Reporting Form
 
All University-sponsored student travel of more than one (1) night in duration, and all repeated student travel no matter the duration, must be collected by the University for annual statistics reporting requirements. University-sponsored travel includes trips for which the University makes the lodging arrangements for students, or when the University contracts a third party to make such arrangements for students. Each qualifying trip should be reported individually; include up to five locations per trip.
Short-stay "away" Trips:  E.g. A three-week marine biology study trip to Florida, any classroom or housing space specified in the agreement between UIC and the institution(s) providing the space should be reported. 
Repeated Use: E.g. Students in the debate club take a trip to Washington, D.C. and stay at the same hotel every year; the hotel and rooms occupied should be reported. 
 Study Abroad: Your college/unit rents or leases space for your students in a hotel or student housing facility abroad (or contracts with a third-party to rent or lease space on behalf of the University), these locations must be reported.
 
Identify University Buildings/Properties


Identify University Buildings/Properties Form
    
 
If students from your college or major administrative unit frequently use buildings/properties that are not currently recognized as UIC geography, these properties must be identified for Clery purposes.  E.g. Your unit leases classroom space in the Loop that students use, this location should be identified.
Additionally, if your college or major administrative unit administers an organized program of study that takes place outside the recognized geography, the location of the program must be identified. E.g. if your unit has a research facility that has an administrator on-site and that is used by students for recurring classes, the location should be reported.
 

 

xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-16"?AITS Navigation Menu


In case of emergency: 

UIC Police Department
(312) 355-5555 or 5-5555 from a campus phone
Suspicious Activities
855-RPRT-2-S4
Title IX Coordinator

(312) 996-8670
National Crisis Hotline
(800) 273-TALK (8255)
E-chat: suicidepreventionlifeline.org/chat 
Counseling Center 
(312) 413-8206

Clery Helpdesk
(312) 413-5363

University of Illinois at Chicago
				   1200 West Harrison St.
				   Chicago, Illinois 60607
                       312-996-7000
				    Our CampusesRESOURCES			    © 2016 Board of Trustees, University of Illinois | 


