














 » Administrative StructureAdministrative Structure




The
formation of executive and advisory committees at UIC helps facilitate Clery
Act/HEOA compliance and enhance UIC’s commitment to creating and maintaining a
safe and secure learning environment. The committees (see below) are intended
to function as a clearinghouse for Clery Act policies, procedures, guielines,
and initiatives undertaken at UIC. The model also provides UIC leadership an
organized structure and process for campus stakeholder interation, expression
of concerns, exploration of feasible solutions, and reconciliation of diverse viewpoints
on this complex Clery landscape that continues to change. Additionally, the
committees demonstrate UIC’s commitment to providing current and prospective
students and their families and employees with accurate, complete and timely
information about campus safety consistent with the letter and spirit of the
Clery Act/HEOA. 


Governance and Oversight
The most fundamental tenet of effective UIC compliance with the Clery Act/HEOA is sound governance. An effective governance model supports: the identification, review, and endorsement of issues affecting Clery Act/HEOA compliance at UIC; policy and decision-making to improve Clery Act policies, processes, and compliance procedures at UIC; communication, coordination, and cooperation; and a forum for participating UIC units to voice concerns, offer recommendations, and make decisions.
For the purposes of all phases of Clery Act/HEOA compliance, governance can take two forms: Executive (Organizational) and Advisory (Operational). Each of these forms is scalable under each of the phases.
Clery Compliance Executive Committee
Executive (Organizational) governance is defined as the senior-level executive group who will provide UIC-wide leadership, policy, and strategic direction. The group will be comprised of Vice Chancellors and other senior leaders designated to serve on the Clery Compliance Executive Committee (CCEC). The CCEC serves as the base structure for Clery Act/HEOA compliance and decision-making at UIC and its regional health science campuses in Peoria, Rockford, the Quad Cities, Springfield, and Urbana-Champaign. It provides the necessary strategic oversight of UIC’s  adherance to the regulations and requirements set forth in the Clery Act. The CCEC will also facilitate coordination in expanding unit-specific communication of the requirements, gathering and reporting information, and supporting training to mitigate compliance risks. 
Responsibilities:

Serve as a base structure for Clery Act/HEOA compliance and decision-making
Provide strategic oversight and assurance, and ensure that policies are enforced
Ensure alignment with campus mission and goals
Identify resources to support Clery Act requirements
Impose deadlines and milestones for major objectives/initiatives/tasks
Approve scope changes, and sign off on the Annual Security and Fire Safety Report (ASFSR)
Review and approve recommendations submitted by the Clery Compliance Advisory Committee

 Reporting: The CCEC will report to the Chancellor at least annually. The annual report shall include key performance indicators, a progress report on annual Clery Act/HEOA compliance goals and such other matters as the CCEC deems appropriate. 

Clery Compliance Advisory Committee
Advisory (Operational) governance is defined as the tactical level advisory/management committee, which imposes control on behalf of the executive committee. The Clery Compliance Advisory Committee (CCAC) will provide the management and oversight to ensure compliance in the areas of Clery Act/HEOA reporting, implementing and sharing policies and procedures, updating the regulatory policy checklist, and providing educational programs. It will be comprised of stakeholders at a management level from various departments (administrative and academic) that will provide input into comprehensive annual security and safety reporting for UIC and its regional health sciences campuses in Peoria, the Quad Cities, Rockford, Springfield, and Urbana-Champaign. The intent is to broaden awareness of security issues and help enhance policies and programs that support campus safety and crime statistics reporting. 
Responsibilities: 

Contribute to the ASFSR so that all crime statistics, policies, and content are consistent with Federal requirements 
Review and edit the ASFSR 
Implement policies and procedures in respective areas as they relate to VAWA Section 304 and Clery 
Participate in internal and external Clery audits 
Establish and review the evidenced-based framework for Clery educational programs (i.e., for Campus Security Authorities – CSAs)
Create a rubric to evaluate Clery prevention education and interventions 
Track VAWA Section 304 and Clery related training and provide summaries for the ASFSR
Manage and administer changes to the security reporting website
When requested by the CCEC, provide additional information to support Advisory Committee recommendations
Implement Advisory Committee recommendations approved by the CCEC
Take other actions as directed by the CCEC

Reporting: The CCAC will report and make recommendations to the Clery Compliance Executive Committee at least bi-annually. 
 


xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-16"?AITS Navigation Menu


In case of emergency: 
UIC Police Department
(312) 355-5555 or 5-5555 from a campus phone
Suspicious Activities
855-RPRT-2-S4
Title IX 
(312) 996-8670
National Crisis Hotline
(800) 273-TALK (8255)
E-chat: suicidepreventionlifeline.org/chat 
Counseling Center 
(312) 413-8206

Clery Helpdesk
(312) 413-5363

University of Illinois at Chicago
				   1200 West Harrison St.
				   Chicago, Illinois 60607
                       312-996-7000
				    Our CampusesRESOURCES			    © 2016 Board of Trustees, University of Illinois | 


