














 » GeographySeparate Campuses

UIC is a distributed university, with campuses and locations strategically placed to serve the needs of the region and Illinois. Each regional campus is known for its distinctive academic focus, which plays a critical role in the economy of its area. For Clery Act reporting purposes, UIC is divided into 7 campuses. To download clery maps in PDF format, click on campus links below.









Clery Geographic Categories 
Under the Clery Act, UIC must distribute statistics in the annual report and disclose annually statistics to the Department of Education for crimes according to their occurrence in the following locations, or geographic categories: 
On-Campus Property: (1) Any building or property owned or controlled by an institution within the same reasonably contiguous geographic area and used by the institution in direct support of or in a manner related to the institution's educational purposes, including residence halls; and (2)  Any building or property that is within or reasonably contiguous to the area identified in paragraph (1) of this definition, that is owned by the institution but controlled by another person, is frequently used by students, and supports institutional purposes (such as a food or other retail vendor).   Examples of On-Campus Property include Student Centers East and West, School of Public Health & Psychiatric Institute, UIC Forum, Halsted St. Parking Structure, Thomas Beckham Hall, Les Miller Field – Curtis Granderson Stadium, Rockford College of Medicine East Building, College of Medicine at Peoria, and other locations. Generally speaking, it is reasonable to consider locations within one mile of the campus border to be reasonably contiguous with the campus.
On-Campus Student Housing Facilities: Any student housing facility that is owned or controlled by the institution, or is located on property that is owned or controlled by the institution, and is within the reasonably contiguous geographic area that makes up the campus is considered an on-campus student housing facility. Under the Clery Act, an institution that has on-campus student housing facilities must separately disclose two sets of on-campus statistics: the total number of crimes that occurred on campus, including crimes that occurred in student housing facilities; and the number of crimes that occurred in on-campus student housing facilities as a subset of the total.
Controlled by: Means that our institution rents, leases or has some other type of written agreement (including an informal one, such as a letter or an e-mail) for a building or property, or a portion of a building or property. Even if there is no payment involved in the transaction, under Clery, a written agreement for use of space gives your institution control of that space for the time period specified in the agreement.
Noncampus Building or Property: (1) Any building or property owned or controlled by a student organization that is officially recognized by the institution; or (2) any building or property owned or controlled by an institution that is used in direct support of or in relation to the institution's educational purposes, is frequently used by students, and is not within the same reasonably contiguous geographic area of the institution. Examples of Noncampus Building or Property include Pharmacognosy Field Station, the L.P. Johnson Family Health Center, the Carle Forum, and other locations.
Public Property: All public property, including thoroughfares, streets, sidewalks, and parking facilities, that is within the campus or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus.
 The UIC crime statistics do not include crimes that occur in privately owned homes or businesses within or adjacent to the campus boundaries.
 





xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-16"?AITS Navigation Menu



In case of emergency: 
UIC Police Department
(312) 355-5555 or 5-5555 from a campus phone
Suspicious Activities
855-RPRT-2-S4
Title IX 
(312) 996-8670
National Crisis Hotline
(800) 273-TALK (8255)
E-chat: suicidepreventionlifeline.org/chat 
Counseling Center 
(312) 413-8206

Clery Helpdesk
(312) 413-5363

University of Illinois at Chicago
				   1200 West Harrison St.
				   Chicago, Illinois 60607
                       312-996-7000
				    Our CampusesRESOURCES			    © 2016 Board of Trustees, University of Illinois | 


