 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Apply
















Breadcrumbs



Apply




Apply
FAFSA:
Students must complete a  every year to be eligible for aid. The FAFSA is available on October 1 each year - UIC’s priority filing deadline is February 15.
FSA ID:
Students and a parent, if applicable, must have a Federal Student Aid ID (login) to sign the electronic FAFSA.
.

UIC’s School Code: 001776
Include UIC’s school code on the FAFSA - (001776)
Student Dependency Status:
Students are considered dependent or independent based on information provided on the FAFSA. Most undergraduate students are dependent. All graduate and professional students are independent. Dependent students must report parental income information on the FAFSA. Dependency Status is not based on whether a student lives with a parent, is financially self-supportive, or claimed as dependent on a parents’ taxes.
Student Aid Report (SAR):
After receiving a FAFSA, the Federal Processor will send a Student Aid Report (SAR) electronically. The SAR lists all information submitted on the FAFSA and explains the EFC calculation. Review the SAR for accuracy and log on to the FAFSA website to make corrections.
 
















































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















