 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Verification
















Breadcrumbs



Verification




Verification
UIC begins to process FAFSA’s received from the federal processor in November. Some students must submit additional documentation to SFAS in order to verify information they reported on the FAFSA. If additional information is required, SFAS will send you an email requesting specific documentation. It is important that you submit any required documentation in a timely manner. You cannot be awarded aid until all required documentation is received and processed.
Verification
Approximately 25% of student applicants are selected each year for verification. If selected, the SFAS will provide you a link to print a Verification Worksheet. You and your parents/spouse must complete the worksheet and return it along with all requested additional documentation. This will include, but is not limited to, your official federal tax information for 2016 (prior-prior tax year). This information may be provided using the IRS Data Retrieval option on your 2018-2019 FAFSA application, or by providing an official IRS Tax Return Transcript. To view a sample of an IRS Tax Return Transcript click . Those submitting an official IRS Tax Return Transcript or those who are not required to file a 2016 federal tax return per the IRS regulations, will be required to submit any W-2 forms for 2016.
SFAS will review the documentation you submit and make any necessary corrections to your FAFSA information. The verification process generally takes two to three weeks. Once completed, you will be notified via email.
Other Required Documentation
Sometimes the federal processor flags a student’s FAFSA and requires additional documentation to verify FAFSA data. Students might be required to submit documentation regarding:

Citizenship
Selective Service
Bankruptcy
Loan Default
Loan Discharge
Veteran Status
Social Security Number/Name/Date of Birth Discrepancies
Federal Aid Overpayments

If any of this additional documentation is required, SFAS will send you a request via email.
















































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















