 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Payment
















Breadcrumbs



Payment




Payment
Financial aid pays (or disburses) no earlier than 10 days before the start of each semester. Current term aid is disbursed continuously throughout the semester on Tuesday and Thursday evenings. Aid is credited to UIC student billing accounts. Based upon notification of other awards or changes in enrollment, financial aid and bills can change at any time (even after the semester ends).
Students can check their current student account balance, including any aid disbursements, at  under the Finances tab.
Students cannot receive aid until satisfying all outstanding requirements and accepting Award Notifications online. By accepting financial aid awards students accept all terms and conditions associated with each award. It is a student’s responsibility to review and understand the terms and conditions of each award program.
Refunds:
If aid exceeds the charges on a student account, the University Student Financial Services & Cashier Operations (USFSCO) will issue a refund for the surplus. Students must enroll in direct deposit with USFSCO to receive a refund. For more about refunds, direct deposit, and free banking options, see .
UIC does not have a book voucher program. Students who intend to use financial aid funds to purchase books must do so after receiving a refund.
















































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















