 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Special Circumstances
















Breadcrumbs



Special Circumstances




Special Circumstances
Click below for more information regarding these types of special circumstances.




Special Circumstances





            Change of Financial Situation
        






Change of Financial Sitaution
If a student or parent/spouse experiences a change in income their financial aid may be recalculated. Supporting documentation as outlined on the  must be submitted.
Circumstances can include:

Recent unemployment
Divorce/separation
Death of an immediate family member





Medical/Rollover
If a student or parent/spouse experiences a change in income their financial aid may be recalculated. Supporting documentation as outlined on the  must be submitted.
Circumstances can include:

Unusually high medical expenses (not covered by insurance or claimed as deductions on federal taxes)








            Cost of Attendance (Budget)
        






Cost of Attendance (Budget)
Each aid applicant is assigned a budget and Cost of Attendance (COA), which is an estimate of expenses they may incur in an academic year. If a student’s COA does not accurately reflect their expenses, they may request a reevaluation by submitting a  with supporting documentation.
Budget adjustments may be approved for:

Purchase of a personal computer
Expenses associated with a disability
Child care costs
Unusual transportation expenses
Room and board expenses








            Dependency Override
        






Dependency Override
Dependency status is based on information provided on the FAFSA. Most undergraduate students are dependent and must report parental information on the FAFSA. A student who does not meet FAFSA requirements for independent status can be considered independent by submitting a  with supporting documentation. Parents’ refusal to provide income information on the FAFSA is not a sufficient reason for dependency override approval.






















































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















