 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Rights & Responsibilities
















Breadcrumbs



Rights & Responsibilities




Rights & Responsibilities
As a financial aid applicant or recipient, you have certain rights and responsibilities. You should clearly understand them before you accept financial aid.




Student Rights



You have the right to:

Know what  is available, including information on all federal, state, local and institutional financial aid programs.
Know the procedures and deadlines for financial aid, including when and how your aid will be disbursed ().
Know how your financial need is determined ().
Expect fair and equitable treatment from the SFAS staff. It is our goal to assist you promptly and professionally throughout the financial aid process.
Know the interest rate on any educational loan you have, the total amount you must repay, the length of the repayment period, when repayment begins and what cancellation or deferment provisions apply ().
Know how  is measured and how you can reestablish eligibility for federal financial aid if you fail to meet one of the standards.
Know what funds you may be eligible for while enrolled in an approved 





Student Responsibilities
You and your parents/spouse have the primary responsibility for meeting your educational expenses at UIC. SFAS expects that you and your family will make every effort to provide a reasonable contribution toward your education.
You are responsible for:

Filing the appropriate applications and forms for each type of aid that you wish to receive by the established deadlines.
Providing all requested information to SFAS accurately and promptly.
Regularly checking your university email account for important updates and notifications from SFAS.
Maintaining  according to established university policies and standards.
Reporting all financial assistance, such as scholarships, received from any outside source to SFAS. These additional awards may be reported via your online .
 any changes in your name, address or attendance status to the appropriate office within the university.
Repaying all student loans you receive. You must complete  prior to receipt of your first Federal Direct Stafford and/or Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan. Each year that you receive a federal student loan, a university loan or a health professional loan, you must also complete a  session. Additionally, upon graduation, withdrawal or enrollment less than half-time you will also need to complete .
Understanding the  of UIC. Please be aware that based upon the withdrawal date and refund calculation, SFAS may need to return funds to the appropriate federal/state/institutional financial aid accounts.  Unless instructed otherwise, you should never return funds directly to the federal/state governments, as we must do so for you according to the regulations.
Paying your UIC billing charges, finance charges and late fees if you apply late for financial aid or if you do not submit required documents to SFAS in a timely manner.

















































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















