 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Withdrawing vs. Reducing Hours
















Breadcrumbs



Withdrawing vs. Reducing Hours




Unofficial Withdrawal
If a student stops attending all classes during a semester without going through the University’s withdrawal process this is considered an "unofficial withdrawal." At the end of each semester SFAS identifies all students who did not pass at least one class and will work with the colleges to document the last date of attendance. Using that information, a student’s aid eligibility will be recalculated using a federal Return of Funds calculation.
Reducing Hours
If a student reduces hours prior to the end of the add/drop period, financial aid will be adjusted accordingly. If a student receives a refund based upon higher enrollment, they may need to repay the funds after the adjustment.
Reducing vs. Withdrawing
Tuition and financial aid may be adjusted any time a student reduces hours. Withdrawing partial hours after the add/drop period does not affect current term aid or enrollment hours; students will receive a grade of "W" for the withdrawn course(s). Receiving grades of "W" can impact future aid eligibility by lowering credit completion ratio. See the  for more information about completion ratio requirements.
If enrollment hours are retroactively reduced resulting in a student not meeting minimum enrollment for aid programs received, tuition assessment and eligibility for financial aid may be affected. This can occur at any point during the term, as well as after the term has ended.
Contact  with questions about how changes in enrollment can affect current or future financial aid eligibility.
















































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















