 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Waivers & Assistantships
















Breadcrumbs



Waivers & Assistantships




Waivers/Assistantships/Fellowships
Waivers, assistantships, and fellowships are gift assistance that in most cases are awarded based on a student's field of study and/or employment status. Click on the appropriate link on the left for general information about waivers, assistantships and fellowships available to UIC students.




Waivers





            BOT or Graduate College Tuition Waivers
        






BOT
Board of Trustees (BOT) Waivers are awarded by the Graduate College and individual graduate programs. The SFAS disburses the waivers but does not determine recipients. A student must be enrolled in a degree-seeking program at least 12 or more hours during the fall and spring semesters (6 or more during summer) at the end of the add/drop period for the waiver to pay. BOT waiver recipients must NOT have eligibility for a waiver from any other source (for example, an assistantship waiver) in order to remain eligible. If a student receives a waiver, his/her loan eligibility may be affected. For more information about Board of Trustees or Graduate College waivers, please see the .
Students must report wavers to the SFAS upon receiving their electronic award letter.







            Child of Employee Tuition Waiver
        






COETW
The Child of Employee 50% Tuition Waiver (CETW) is available for undergraduate children of Illinois senior public university employees at participant schools. Fees and charges other than tuition are not included in this waiver. For detailed information about the policy, eligibility and application for the CETW waiver, please visit the .







            Children of Veterans Tuition Waiver
        






COVTW
The Children of Veterans Tuition Waiver is awarded for four consecutive years at the University of Illinois to natural or legally adopted children of service members who are veterans of World War II, the Korean Conflict, the Vietnam Conflict, the Southwest Asia Conflict, Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.
The following are limitations to the Children of Veterans Tuition Waiver:

One tuition waiver will be given per county, per war.
Candidates must be permanent residents of the Illinois County from which they apply.
Students must submit copies of ACT/SAT scores each year they apply, as prior year applications are not reviewed.
Students must complete the application by March 1 for the upcoming academic year.

 are available each December 1st and notifications are released by April 1st. All applications for the three University of Illinois campuses are reviewed in Urbana-Champaign and must be submitted accordingly.







            Senior Citizen Tuition Waiver
        






Senior Citizen TW
The Senior Citizen Tuition Waiver is available for undergraduate and graduate students who are 65 or over, Illinois residents, live in a low-income household (see application for details), are admitted to UIC and have completed the waiver application. The waiver covers tuition only. The application can be found .







            Assistantships
        






TA/RA/GA TW
Students with assistantship appointments may qualify to have tuition and some fees waived. To be eligible, the assistantship must be between 25%-67% and cover at least 91 continuous days of the fall or spring semesters (41 days for summer appointments). Visit the  for more information. Students receive a monthly stipend from their hiring department that varies according to hours worked. Students must maintain enrollment in at least 8 credit hours for fall and spring and 3 hours for summer. For more information, see the .
Students must report waivers to SFAS upon receiving their electronic award letter.











































































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















