 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Student Employment
















Breadcrumbs



Student Employment




Student Employment
Federal Work Study (FWS)
FWS is money paid to undergraduate students for work at a part-time job on-campus. The federal government and UIC fund the program. Students interested in FWS must request it on their award letters. Students offered FWS must secure jobs on their own, hourly wages vary. To search for a FWS job, visit the .
FWS employees are paid by direct deposit every two weeks – funds do not go towards tuition charges with the University. FWS earnings are taxable income and must be reported when filing. On the following year’s FAFSA student can indicate the amount earned from FWS and it will be subtracted from their income without decreasing eligibility for financial aid.
America Reads
The SFAS recruits literacy and math tutors for the America Reads program each year. The positions involve tutoring in family literacy centers or a Chicago Public School (CPS) site. All sites are within 3-4 miles of UIC’s east campus. Tutors earn $13.00/hour.
Eligible applicants must be:

Eligible for Federal Work Study
Available to work 10-20 hours a week
Available to work some hours between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m. Monday - Friday
Able to work at least 3 hours in a row each shift
Able to speak, read, and write English fluently
Able to maintain satisfactory academic progress (2.0 GPA and 67% credit completion rate)
Enrolled in a minimum of 6 credit hours per semester

Visit the SFAS reception area in the Student Services Building to request an application or download it from the  section.





































































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















