 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Study Abroad
















Breadcrumbs



Study Abroad




Study Abroad
Requirements
Students who need financial aid for a study abroad program must submit a FAFSA and complete all the following steps:

Meet with study abroad coordinator.
Submit a budget for term abroad to SFAS.
Meet with Financial Aid Adviser with  in SFAS.
Submit the  to SFAS.

Grants and scholarships are reduced if a student registers for less than 12 hours (less than 15 for  recipients) while studying abroad.
Financial Aid Package
After submitting required documentation, students will receive an email indicating a  is ready to view.
Study abroad funds will be similar to on-campus awards for students registered full-time. Study abroad students are not eligible for more gift assistance.
Increases in financial aid for study abroad costs will require additional loans such as a Federal Direct Subsidized, Unsubsidized, PLUS and/or Alternative loans.
Refunds
Most financial aid funds are credited directly to student accounts shortly before the first day of classes at UIC.
UIC charges are deducted from financial aid proceeds and the remaining funds are refunded via direct deposit. The student is responsible to pay the abroad program directly once the student receives his or her refund.
After the Term
Study abroad transcripts must show: (1) student earned the amount of hours they received aid for during the term abroad towards graduation (2) student received grades of at least a D or above. Students who do not meet requirements may be responsible for repaying funds to UIC.





































































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















