 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Veterans
















Breadcrumbs



Veterans




Veterans
Veteran education programs can be used with financial aid to cover a student’s Estimated Cost of Attendance (COA). Students must file the  to determine eligibility for additional grants, loans and federal work study (FWS). The staff in the  assist students with receiving benefits from the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs and the Illinois Student Assistance Commission (ISAC).  Veteran Affairs staff provide the following services:

Processing applications for VA Educational Benefits
Counseling on VA Educational Benefits
Certification of enrollment
Monthly verification of enrollment
VA Work-Study Program
Other VA entitlements and benefits
Veteran Student Association

Illinois Veteran Grant (IVG) Program
The Illinois Veteran Grant (IVG) program pays tuition and fees for undergraduate or graduate study at all Illinois public colleges and universities. Recipients may use their grant until reaching the maximum of 120 eligibility units. IVG covers resident tuition and mandatory fees excluding the student to student fee. IVG does not cover University housing. Students must submit a copy of their eligibility letter to Student Financial Aid and Scholarships (SFAS) prior to the term deadline established by the  for the funds to be applied to their student account.
Illinois National Guard (ING) Grant Program
Enlisted officers or company grade officers of Illinois National Guard Units with one or more years of service may be eligible for payment of tuition at state universities and colleges in Illinois through the ING Grant program. Other grants administered by ISAC may be used in conjunction with the ING, but may not replace it. Recipients may use their grant assistance up to a maximum of 120 eligibility units. Applications must be submitted annually and are available from ISAC.
For IVG and ING information and applications visit .
MIA/POW Scholarship
The MIA/POW Scholarship is available to dependents of Illinois veterans who are/were prisoners of war, declared missing in action, deceased or have 100% service connected disability. Students may request more eligibility information or an application from the .
Children of Veterans Tuition Waiver
 The application deadline is March 1st for the upcoming year.





































































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















