 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Academic Programs
















Breadcrumbs



Academic Programs




Academic Programs

Accreditation, Approval, and Licensure of Institution and Programs- Names of associations, agencies, or governmental bodies that accredit, approve, or license the school and its programs are included at the urls below. Upon written request can obtain or review documents describing accreditation, approval or licensing.






Degree Programs - List of current degree programs and other education and training programs.





Instructional Facilities - Campus maps of instructional, laboratory, and other physical plant facilities that relate to the academic programs.



Campus Maps










Faculty - List of current faculty and other instructional personnel.









Gainful Employment Programs - Discloses information about each of the programs classified as Gainful Employment Programs per the U.S. Department of Education.

College of Applied Health Sciences





College of Dentistry























































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















