 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Financial Aid Information
















Breadcrumbs



Financial Aid Information




Financial Aid Information

Annual report on Preferred Lender Arrangements - The institution does not have any preferred lender arrangements, thus is exempt from completing this report.
 - Eligibility requirements and procedures for applying for aid.
 - Criteria for selecting recipients and for determining award amounts.
 - Institutions code of conduct that prohibits a conflict of interest with the responsibilities of an agent of the school with respect to private education loans.
 - Methods and frequency of disbursements of aid.
 - Prior to the first disbursement of a Federal Direct Student Loan, the borrower must complete Entrance Counseling.
Exit Counseling for Student Loan Borrowers - Students who received funds from the programs listed below and withdraws and/or graduates must complete exit counseling.






 - Details general conditions and terms to employment provided as part of a financial aid package.
 - Information on need-based and non-based federal, state, institutional and private financial assistance programs.
Loan Information - Details terms of loans, sample loan repayment schedule and the necessity for repaying loans.





 - Students who borrow a Federal Direct Loan and/or a Federal Perkins Loan will have their loan information submitted to the NSLDS. This information is accessible by the borrower, guaranty agencies, lenders and schools determined to be authorized users.
 - Details penalties associated with drug-related offenses for those individuals receiving Federal Student Financial Aid.
Preferred Lender Arrangements - The institution does not have any preferred lender arrangements.
Preferred Lender Lists - The institution does not recommend, promote, or endorse any specific private education lenders or loans.
 - Information about Private/Alternative Loans for which the student may be eligible.
 - Outlines the rights and responsibilities of students receiving Title IV, HEA student Financial Aid.
 - Information on the academic requirements that students must maintain for continued eligibility for Student Financial Aid.
 - Enrollment in a program of study abroad approved for credit may be considered for purposes of applying for federal student financial aid.














































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















