 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





General Institutional Information
















Breadcrumbs



General Institutional Information




General Institutional Information

 – Offers one-on-one advising, career preparation programs, and events to help connect students to work opportunities.
Constitution and Citizenship Day – Information about commemorating the signing of the Constitution.


Resources







 – The U.S. Department of Education is required to post 26 items on the College Navigator website for each school.
 – Policies and sanctions related to copyright infringement.
 – Information about facilities and services available to students with disabilities.
– Refund schedule for those students who withdraw from all their classes in a particular term.
 – Details information about what is considered directory information and the right to review and request amendments of records.
 – Information about the price of attendance and provides the opportunity with certain information to get an individualized net price estimate of attendance.
 – Information about the institutions refund policy.
 – Information about the procedures for officially withdrawing from the institution and upon doing so the requirements for the Return of Title IV, HEA grant or loan aid.
Shopping Sheet to Veterans and Service Members – Not all veterans or family members eligible for veteran benefits always identify themselves. Therefore, upon any student being admitted to UIC and having submitted the FAFSA and any additional documents needed to determine costs and financial aid eligibility, all students are able to access a Shopping Sheet specific to their situation via . Click  to view an example of a Shopping Sheet.
Student Activities - UIC's diverse campus life is described at the web page .
Student Body Diversity - Information about student body diversity.

 – Student Data Book, Office of Institutional Research; includes enrollment by level, college, age group, gender, ethnicity, geographical region, full time/part-time status.






Transfer of Credit Policies and Articulation Agreements – Information on the institutions transfer of credit policies.

Undergraduate










 – Information on required and recommended textbooks to assist with calculating a reasonable estimate of the textbook prices for the various courses.
Written Arrangements – There are currently no UIC programs in which a portion of the program is being offered by another entity.














































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















