 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Student Outcomes
















Breadcrumbs



Student Outcomes




Student Outcomes (graduation Rates, Retention Rate, Assessment of Student Learning)

 – The College Scorecard is provided by the U.S. Department of Education and details Costs, Graduation Rate, Loan Default Rate and Median Borrowing for UIC students.
 – Provides six-year graduation rate of certificate or degree-seeking, first-time, full-time undergraduate students.
– Provides information for degree-seeking first-time, full-time undergraduates who received athletically related student aid.
Post-Graduation Information – The institution does not calculate placement rates or advertise job placement rates as a means of recruiting students. Additionally, it does not advertise the types of graduate and professional education in which graduates of the institution's 4-year degree programs enroll. Listed below are optional surveys which gather some of this information.





Retention Rate





Student Assessment Campus Information


 – Pre-service teacher license assessment pass rates

















































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















