 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Department of Education Complaint Process
















Breadcrumbs



Department of Education Complaint Process




Department of Education Complaint Process
The University of Illinois at Chicago is committed to respecting all members of the University community and providing a quality educational experience for all students. Further, federal regulations require institutions of higher education to disclose information for filing complaints. The information below is intended to provide both institutional and external contact information to current and prospective students.
Academic Concerns
Students are encouraged to contact their college office to seek advice. The , the , and the  provide guidance on campus-level policy.
If complaints cannot be resolved at the college level or with the help of Student Ombuds Service (see below), the formal mechanism to register student complaints is through the . They define an administrative process through which students may seek resolution of complaints or grievances regarding academic standing during their enrollment at UIC. Examples of complaints addressed by this process include but are not limited to grade disputes and program dismissals. Note that these procedures may not be used for decisions made as a result of the Student Conduct Process, described below.
Other Complaints
If a complaint cannot be resolved within the college or the student prefers to speak to someone outside of the college, students have access to several services within the Office of the Dean of Students (DOS). The  within the Office of the Dean of Students provides an impartial advocate for fairness who investigates student complaints. The Ombudsperson may serve as a counselor, go-between, mediator, or informal fact finder. Some of the matters which may be addressed by this service include grade disputes / grievance procedures, student record errors, billing / financial issues and registration problems.
The  within the Office of the Dean of Students is also available to any student, university employee, or community member with a complaint about a UIC student. They can file a  or  form regarding possible violations of the University Standards of Conduct, which is included in the .
The  strives to increase access to employment, programs, and services in an environment free of unlawful discrimination and harassment. As part of the Office of the Chancellor, the Office for Access and Equity (OAE) is the office charged with reviewing and addressing complaints of harassment and/or discrimination. This includes sex discrimination, sexual misconduct, sexual harassment and retaliation. Students may file a complaint internally using the .
UIC is committed to maintaining a barrier-free environment so that individuals with disabilities can fully access programs, services, and all activities at UIC. Students with complaints or concerns about accessibility issues on campus can submit an  available at the . The Disability Resource Center (DRC) receives these reports and follows up with different units on campus based on the nature of the complaint. If the student experiences discrimination based on disability it should be reported directly to the Office of Access and Equity (OAE).
External Resources
If a student's complaint cannot be resolved by the University, a complaint may be filed with the , which regulates higher education institutions in Illinois, through their ; or the student may contact the , UIC's regional accrediting agency, through their .
Online Education Complaint Resolution
Students enrolled in Online or Distance Education courses are encouraged to contact their respective college office to seek advice. Since the University of Illinois at Chicago has been approved as an institutional participant in the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA) initiative by the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA), students enrolled from participating SARA states, as indicated by the , follow the . Such students may contact the Illinois Board of Higher Education (the Illinois SARA portal agency) with complaints that were not resolved through the student campus complaint procedures described above by accessing the .
Students enrolled in programs in states outside of SARA contact their own state agencies with complaints that were not resolved through the student UIC campus complaint procedures described above. Online students with questions about complaint procedures may also contact UIC Extended Campus at  or at (312) 355-0423. Listed below are the state agencies for states or U.S. territories not currently participating in SARA.
California
California Bureau of Private Postsecondary Education
PO Box 980818
W. Sacramento, CA 95798-0818


Florida
Florida Commission on Independent Education
325 W. Gaines Street, Suite 1414
Tallahassee, FL 32399-0400


Massachusetts
Massachusetts Board of Higher Education
One Ashburton Place
Room 1401
Boston, MA 02108

New Jersey
New Jersey Commission on Higher Education
PO Box 542
Trenton, NJ 08625

New Jersey Department of Labor and Workforce Development
1 John Fitch Plaza, PO Box 110
Trenton, NJ 08625-0110


New Jersey Division of Consumer Affairs
124 Halsey Street
Newark, New Jersey 07102

New York
New York Office of College and University Evaluation New York State Education Department
5 North Mezzanine
Albany, NY 12234


New York State Department of State Division of Consumer Protection Consumer Assistance Unit
5 Empire State Plaza, Suite 2101
Albany, New York 12223-1556

Puerto Rico
Puerto Rico Council on Higher Education
PO Box 1900
San Juan, PR
00910-1900
Phone: 787.641.7100
Puerto Rico Department of Justice
PO 9020192
San Juan, PR
00902-0192













































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















