
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Minor in Environmental Engineering
Minor in Materials Engineering


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Student Organizations

ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers)
Engineers Without Borders (EWB)
Institute of Transportation Engineers
NSBE (National Society of Black Engineers)
SWE (Society of Women Engineers)
SHPE (Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers)
Structural Engineers Association Of Illinois (SEAOI)
Tau Beta Pi (Engineering Honors Society)


CME Job Board
Career Center
Living in the City


RESEARCH

Research Labs
Environmental Science (IESP)
Urban Transportation (UTC)


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
CEPAC
Alumni
Faculty Awards
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Seminars
Events
Newsletter
News Archive
Contact Us






 


















 



































































  








					UIC Civil and Materials Engineering				



















 





CME Professor Derrible Featured at TEDx Talk 







 



In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings, the graduate Civil Engineering programs have moved up substantially in the rankings to 62nd overall, which isthe 39th percentile. Read more... 







Two New Donors Bring More Scholarship Opportunities to Students 

Two New Donors Bring More ScholarshipOpportunities to Students 







U.S. Army Research Laboratory Taps CME Student for Fellowship 







Student’s Passion for Engineering Leads to Scholarship 



 














ACADEMICS










RESEARCH





FURTHER EXPLORATION
 



 














 














 














 














 














 














 














 















NEWS
















December 7, 2018
Today, about 25 percent of workers in STEM careers — those involving science, technology, engineering and math — are women. But back in 1968, when Nancy Holmes was the first woman to earn a degree in engineering from the UIC College of Engineering, the percentage of women in science or engineering careers was diminishingly small. For Holmes, who grew up in Oak Park, the probability that she would go into the sciences was high from the start — several uncles and her grandfather were civil engineers, her brother is an architectural engineer, her father was an engineer at Zenith Radio and two aunts had advanced math degrees. Her mother had a job in hospital nutrition and was well-versed in chemistry.…











November 28, 2018
John Mulrow, a PhD candidate in the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering (CME), partnered with a team of scientists from the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (MWRDGC), a professor from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and professionals from Ensaras, Inc., to win second place at the inaugural “LIFT Intelligent Water Systems Challenge.” The national competition, hosted by the Leaders Innovation Forum for Technology (LIFT), a joint effort of the Water Environment Federation and the Water Research Foundation, challenged participants to develop new tools to improve local water and environmental quality through data analytics and artificial intelligence. It featured 19 teams of students, professionals and technology experts who used innovation and data to help solve difficult real-world…











November 20, 2018
CME Assistant Professor Sean Vitousek was quoted recently in a Wired story about sea-level rise in Los Angeles. Engineers are also getting better at figuring out exactly where to focus their efforts as sea levels rise. Researchers, for instance, build models of how waves will look in a particular area. “From comparing the model to how it performed over the historical data, we can sort of get a sense of is this model performing in a realistic manner,” says Sean Vitousek, an engineer at the University of Illinois at Chicago. “And then we can use various projections in terms of sea level rise and wave heights going forward to sort of extrapolate where the shoreline might be over a long…











November 14, 2018
PhD candidate Jyoti K. Chetri has a strong work ethic and an even stronger desire to make the world a better place. It is this drive that helped the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering student win a Chicago Consular Corps (CCC) Scholarship for the academic year 2018-2019 from UIC’s Office of International Affairs (OIA). She is one of only a several successful applicants university-wide who were “favorably reviewed” and awarded the $1,000 scholarship. Eligibility for the scholarship is limited to students who have a minimum cumulative UIC GPA of 3.5 (on a 4-point scale). Chetri, of Nepal, is working under the direction of CME Professor Krishna R. Reddy in the Sustainable Engineering Research Lab and the Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental…











November 6, 2018
Scholarship donors and their recipients came together on Nov. 1, 2018, for the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering’s annual Civil Engineering Professional Advisory Council (CEPAC) Scholarship Reception and Awards Dinner. The event recognizes the generosity of scholarship donors and partners who give annually to students to help them pursue their academic and professional dreams. CME awarded dozens of scholarships to students and supports UIC in its mission to provide access to excellence and success for our students. Board members, many of whom are UIC alumnus, added personal stories to the ceremony as they detailed the scholarship requirements and the interests and accomplishments of the donors. Additionally, two new scholarships were awarded from CEPAC members. The “Infrastructure Engineering Scholarship” was established…











October 17, 2018
John Klein, a PhD student studying Materials Engineering within the Civil and Materials Engineering Department at UIC, has been selected for a fellowship award in the U.S. Army Research Laboratory (USARL) Research Associateship Program. Earlier this year, two researchers from The Composites and Hybrid Materials Branch of the USARL visited UIC, and met with CME Associate Professor Eduard Karpov to discuss opportunities for collaboration. The researchers expressed specific interest in some of the research coming out of his lab. They also were looking for U.S. citizen PhD students in the field of materials engineering, and Klein – who grew up in Wilmette, IL – fit the candidate profile. After receiving positive feedback regarding his credentials, he applied to the fellowship,…















STUDENT SUPPORT GROUPS
 











 
Connect With Us 
 
    
  (312) 996-2426

Quick Links





 
Make a Gift
RESOURCES





 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















