


















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Master of Energy Engineering Program at UIC Offering Two New Graduate Certificates				

August 28, 2018 


Master of Energy Engineering Program at UIC Offering Two New Graduate Certificates






 
 


Earning a master’s degree is not an option for everyone. To provide a choice for busy engineers who want to advance their careers, UIC is offering two new opportunities.
The Master of Energy Engineering program in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC has added two graduate certificates that focus on two special areas of interest within its program. Apart from its Master’s Degree, the program is offering certificates in Energy Efficient Building Design and Power Generation.
The Energy Efficient Building Design certificate focuses on energy usage and efficiency technologies for commercial buildings. The courses cover heating, ventilating and air-conditioning, industrial energy management, energy markets and contracting and design of energy efficient buildings.
The Power Generation certificate is geared toward increasing understanding of electric power generation systems including steam cycles, wind, gas turbines, and photovoltaic power generation, cogeneration systems, electric storage, and the business of power generation.
“We created the certificates in response to increased interest in both power generation and the demand for creating energy efficient buildings,” said Professor Bill Ryan, who serves as the Director of the Master of Energy Engineering Program. “Students will be taught by faculty with real world expertise in these two fields.”
Both of the 12 credit-hour certificates consist of three courses. All of the classes are taught during the evening in classrooms on the UIC campus, which provides an opportunity for students working full time to attend classes outside their regular work schedule. The certificates are designed to meet the need for on-going professional development for those who feel they may not have time to pursue a master’s degree or just want to focus on their core interests.
Eligibility requires a Bachelor’s degree in an engineering discipline, mathematics, computer science or physics. Applicants do not need to be engineers, but they must have a strong background in undergraduate-level math or science. 
Additionally, the courses from the certificate programs can be applied to a Master of Energy Engineering degree if desired. With one of the certificates, students will have completed half the credit hours needed to finish a Master’s degree.
The Master of Energy Engineering program was created for busy working professionals who want to learn more about the growing field of energy engineering. This is a coursework-only program with no thesis requirement. All courses, which have a guaranteed availability, are classroom taught in the evening, allowing students to work during the day.
Learn more about all of the programs offered by MEE at .
By David Staudacher, UIC
 



Facebook


Twitter


Google Plus


Linkedin


Tumblr


Email












You may also like

















davidst






PreviousNano-Sandwiching Improves Heat Transfer, Prevents Overheating in Electronics


NextUIC Hosts International Conference on Liquid Atomization and Spray Systems






 





 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















