
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					College News 2016				




College News 2016








College News 2016















October 19, 2016
UIC has received a five-year, $5.3 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education affirming the designation of the university as a Hispanic-Serving Institution. The grant aims to strengthen UIC’s efforts to increase the number of Latino and low-income students attaining degrees in STEM fields — science, technology, engineering or mathematics. Read more.











October 13, 2016
Professor Tanya Berger-Wolf was invited to speak at the White House Frontiers conference in Pittsburgh: http://www.frontiersconference.org/  President Obama hosted and attended the conference. Forward to minute 12:43 to watch Tanya's presentation.











October 5, 2016
These students and the College of Engineering are truly grateful for the many opportunities that you have provided! We also thank the students and staff who joined us for "Strengthening Women Leaders in Engineering"...more events and presentations coming soon so please stay tuned!WIEP is our Women in Engineering Program. Click here to learn more about WIEP.











October 5, 2016
BiAffect, an app developed by College of Engineering professor and dean Pete Nelson and College of Medicine professor Alex Leow, has been chosen as one of two final entries in Apple’s ResearchKit contest. The app measures typing speed and spell-check overrides, and may be able to predict manic and depressive moods in people diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Read more.











April 9, 2016
A $75,000 grant from the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation will support the Energy Resources Center's continued facilitation of a multi-agency group working to promote successful monarch habitat projects in 2016. Click here to read more.











March 15, 2016
Join alumni, friends, faculty, and students April 16 on campus for Greening UIC Through Engineering 2:00 p.m. Reception Registration and networking 2:30 p.m. Welcoming remarks 2:45–3:00 p.m. Green project presentations • Blair L. Hawn, PE, Sr. Engineer, KJWW Engineering Consultants • Rob Kutner, Area Vice President, Big Belly Compactors • Brian Roskens, AIA, Sr. Project Developer, Ameresco 3:00–5:00 p.m. Campus Tours Refreshments will be served. RSVP by Monday, April 11, to: Renata Szandra, rszandra@uic.edu; (312) 996-0520 Tickets: $30 alumni and friends($10 donated to the EAA Scholarship) $10 students(suggested)Parking: $8 in the covered lot at Halsted and Taylor Streets    











February 24, 2016
Computer science department head and professor Robert Sloan appeared on WTTW's Chicago Tonight on February 24, 2016 to discuss the Apple vs. FBI privacy case.












Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















