
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					College News 2014				




College News 2014








College News 2014















November 5, 2014
Forbes covers the recent UIC College of Engineering Q & A event with Alan Schriesheim, president of the Chicago Council on Science and Technology and director emeritus of Argonne National Laboratory.











October 21, 2014
Robert Sloan, PhD and head of the CS department talks about the hot topic of Data Breaches in Crain's Chicago Business Op-Ed. 











September 3, 2014
Robert Sloan, PhD, head of the Department of Computer Science at UIC's College of Engineering, appeared on WTTW's Chicago Tonight discussing credit card breaches.











August 5, 2014
MIE Professor Dino Megaridis's innovative research helps maximize water collection from the atmosphere, even under the driest of conditions. His work is featured in ScienceWorld Scholastic magazine, which targets US middle schoolers.Watch video











August 5, 2014
Fostering undergraduate researchWinning four consecutive three-year NSF grants for the program, Professor Christos Takoudis helps promote undergraduate research with UIC’s Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU).With more academic institutions realizing the potential benefits of competition for research for undergraduates, the National Science Foundation’s program is growing more competitive with time, but that hasn’t hindered professors Christos Takoudis and Gregory Jursich, who direct UIC’s program, from receiving four consecutive three-year grants to promote undergraduate research.The REU program at UIC offers a dozen students—both from UIC and around the nation—the opportunity to learn what research is all about. For ten weeks during the summer, participants work in a UIC facility assisting a UIC faculty member with his or her research project. Generally, the…











July 24, 2014
MIE Professor Constantine Megaridis in collaboration with other NSF-funded engineers develop new textured materials to trap and channel small amounts of liquid. Read more.











May 29, 2014












May 24, 2014












April 29, 2014












April 5, 2014
UIC Professor Wears Two Hats: Inventor and Entrepreneur Alan Feinerman, professor of electrical engineering, has invented a new approach to insulation. Now he wants to market it through his start-up company. More than half of the energy consumed in the U.S. is used to keep people or food warm or cool. UIC electrical engineering professor Alan Feinerman worked with UIC’s Office of Technology Management to start his own company, Thermal Conservation Technologies (TCT). The goal is to commercialize an extremely compact and efficient thermal insulation made of a stainless steel “envelope” with Kevlar filaments inside. It is equivalent to the R-value of eight inches of polyurethane foam in less than one half inch, achieved by sealing the Kevlar filaments (patents…











February 25, 2014
UIC plays major role in UI LABS, recipient of $70 M grant.  UIC’s role in the proposal focused on its strengths in computer visualization and technical workforce development.











February 12, 2014
Watch a video featuring our CS student, Rachel Harsley. She explains her career dreams and talks about life and learning at UIC.











January 28, 2014












December 5, 2013
Innovators of ECE: On April 30th, Innovate@UIC celebrated the 2013 Innovator and Inventor of the Year Awards. The celebration honored remarkable innovators and inventors alike at University of Illinois at Chicago whose efforts contributed to significantly advancing his or her invention towards commercialization and contributed to the development of intellectual property at UIC, which has the potential to make a significant impact. These awards recognize creativity and outstanding commitment either through participation in the licensing process, through entrepreneurial efforts or in commitment as demonstrated throughout the invention process. It is with great honor and pleasure that Innovate@UIC and the Office of Technology Management announce that Dr. Alan Feinerman has been named the 2013 UIC Innovator of the Year and Dr.…












Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















