
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					College News 2013				




College News 2013








College News 2013















December 11, 2013
ECE Professor Danilo Erricolo explains the science behind the color explosion of cell signals.











November 8, 2013
View a list of COE honorees. The College of Engineering is honored to acknowledge recipients of various UIC Awards and Years of Service. Campuswide Employee Recognition Awards Program was held in November Congratulations to all 2013 honorees.











October 24, 2013
Two COE faculty members will be receiving the honorary title of UIC Distinguished Professor:-Michael Stroscio (Richard and Loan Hill Professor of ECE and BioE)-Philip Yu (Peter and Deborah Wexler Endowed Chair in Information Technology and Professor of CS)They will be formally honored on October 24 at the Faculty Awards Celebration.This title was created to recognize and honor faculty at the rank of professor who have made major impact upon their field through scholarship, creativity and leadership. A panel of current UIC Distinguished Professors and University Scholars carefully reviewed the nominations as did the Campus Research Board and the Vice Chancellor for Research to select this year's recipients.











October 15, 2013
CME asst. prof., Bo Zou, appears on Chicago Tonight | WTTW to talk about the pros and cons of the new runways opening at O'Hare airport.











October 8, 2013
Professor and Chemical Engineering Dept. Head,Sohail Murad, received this distinction from AIChE. AIChE is the world's leading organization for chemical engineering professionals, with over 45,000 members from over 90 countries.











August 22, 2013
Peter Nelson, director of the AI Lab and College of Engineering dean together with co-principal investigator John Dillenburg, receive a $2.9 M. research contract from the Illinois Department of Transportation to continue their research.











August 8, 2013
2013Spring











August 8, 2013
Practicing Engineering in Orthopaedics With a father and uncle practicing engineering, it might at first seem unlikely that Mark Gonzalez would want to practice medicine. But in 1980, several years after he completed an undergraduate biochemistry degree at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, he earned his MD from the University of Chicago and started practicing orthopaedic surgery at University of Illinois Medical Center at Chicago.But Gonzalez couldn’t stay away from the family vocation forever. In 2004, he completed UIC’s Master of Engineering online program, and is currently working to finish his PhD in mechanical engineering at UIC. Gonzalez casts this progression in the light of fate. He and his father got interested in developing a set of devices to evaluate…











August 8, 2013
Persevering with an engineer's mindAt 85 years old, Paul Gordon (BS ’52, MS ’12) has completed UIC’s Master of Engineering online program. An accomplished structural engineer, he’s collaborated with architects including Mies van der Rohe and Harry Weese; built sections of the Calumet Skyway and nine bridges on the Northern Illinois toll road; and worked on portions of the Marina Towers, John Hancock building, and the Sears Tower. But perhaps Gordon’s greatest achievement isn’t who he’s met or what high-rise he’s built. It’s that he never quits.Flunking his entrance exams and facing anti-Semitic discrimination were only some of the setbacks Gordon faced on his return from a stint as an Army sergeant (349th Infantry Regiment, 88th Infantry Division) in Italy…











July 19, 2013
HAS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REACHED THE VERBAL LEVEL OF 4-YEAR-OLDS?The short paper, "Verbal IQ of a Four-Year Old Achieved by an AI System" by Stellan Ohlsson (Psychology professor), Robert Sloan (CS professor and department head), György Turán (Mathematics Statistics and Computer Science professor) and Aaron Urasky (Mathematical Computer Science undergraduate) presented at the annual conference of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) has been the subject of numerous press articles. The UIC team found that a particular AI system from MIT obtained the score of an average 4-year-old child on the the Verbal IQ portion of the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, Third Edition (WPPSI-III) IQ test. The AAAI paper is available from Professor Sloan's home page; to…











June 19, 2013
CME Department Head & Professor Farhad Ansari was interviewed on ABC channel 7 News on the topic of bridge safety and how his sensors are monitoring bridges around the world.











June 8, 2013
PREP-ME helps freshman students get aheadThanks to PREP-ME (Preparation for Majoring in Engineering), a group of incoming freshmen students have the chance to polish their math and science skills before starting fall classes. The program is just one of many offered by Summer College, a collection of free workshops aiming to ease the transition from high school to college through enrichment programs in key subjects and introductions to campus life and university resources.PREP-ME, now in its fourth year, is offered under the auspices of the College of Engineering's Minority Recruitment and Retention Program (MERRP). Students meet for five weeks and attend two or three classes every day. "The students we target have the talent and potential to do well," said…











June 8, 2013
Cloudsweeper, a research project headed by CS asst. prof. Chris Kanich, is the subject of several articles on the Internet. The program checks your gmail account for information of value to phishers and makers of malware. To read the full articles follow the links below:Geek blog Time Magazines' TECH blog Yahoo's Finance blog











May 23, 2013
WTTW (Channel 11) television's news show, "Chicago Tonight," aired the story "The Star Wars Connection". It profiles the involvement of EVL faculty, students and visiting artist Larry Cuba in making the computer graphics special effects for the 1977 Star Wars movie.











May 8, 2013












April 23, 2013












April 8, 2013
ChE Assistant Professor Ying Liu's award is entitled, "CAREER: Understanding Nanoprecipitation - Scalable Production of Polymeric Nanoparticles Encapsulating Hydrophobic Compounds".











April 5, 2013
Elsa Soto, Assistant Director, Academic Resource Center in the College of Engineering, has been awarded the Excellence in Undergraduate Advising Award.Elsa Soto, Assistant Director, Academic Resource Center in the College of Engineering, has been awarded the Excellence in Undergraduate Advising Award through the Provost’s Office. The award acknowledges excellence, commitment, and dedication in professional advisors of UIC undergraduates. No more than two awards are given annually. Ms. Soto graduated from UIC’s College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs and has worked in the College of Engineering since 2006.











April 5, 2013
Three faculty receive the 2013 Teaching Recognition Award.Dear Colleagues,I am pleased to announce a few important faculty awards that have recently been received by our colleagues.2013 Teaching Recognition Program Recipients: The Teaching Recognition Program (TRP) recognizes the documented excellence of UIC faculty in their teaching activities. The program offers a $1500 increment to base salary (or a percentage thereof for part-time appointments) to faculty who document outstanding performance in their teaching activities over a three year period. The TRP is a self-nominated award program. There were a total of 14 campus awards; we have three COE faculty members receiving awards:Danilo Erricolo (ECE), Jason Leigh (CS), Dale Reed (CS)OVCR 2012 Researchers of the Year: These awards recognize the efforts and commitment…











April 5, 2013
Three faculty receive the 2013 Teaching Recognition Award.Dear Colleagues,I am pleased to announce a few important faculty awards that have recently been received by our colleagues.2013 Teaching Recognition Program Recipients: The Teaching Recognition Program (TRP) recognizes the documented excellence of UIC faculty in their teaching activities. The program offers a $1500 increment to base salary (or a percentage thereof for part-time appointments) to faculty who document outstanding performance in their teaching activities over a three year period. The TRP is a self-nominated award program. There were a total of 14 campus awards; we have three COE faculty members receiving awards:Danilo Erricolo (ECE), Jason Leigh (CS), Dale Reed (CS) OVCR 2012 Researchers of the Year: These awards recognize the efforts and…











February 12, 2013
The University Scholars Program honors faculty members for superior research and teaching, along with great promise for future achievements. MIE Professor Constantine Megaridis is the recipient of this distinguished award.











February 12, 2013
CS Prof. & Dept. Head, Bob Sloan appears on Channel 11's "Chicago Tonight" to discuss how Google's Gmail culls emails for information in order to better target ads.












Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















