
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					College News 2012				




College News 2012
























November 1, 2012
The College of Engineering is honored to acknowledge recipients of various UIC Awards and Years of Service. Campuswide Employee Recognition Awards Program was held Nov. 1. Congratulations to all 2012 honorees.View a list of COE honorees











September 17, 2012
Sustainable Chicago Magazine features the work that the ChE department is doing on geothermal systems at the Kirie water reclamation plant.











September 8, 2012












July 8, 2012
ECE PROFESSOR SUDIP K. MAZUMDER IS GRANTED TWO NEW PATENTS IN THE AREA OF OPTICALLY-SWITCHED POWER SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES AND POWER ELECTRONICS SYSTEMSThe patented optical switching technology has the potential to be a game changer in power electronics and switching power systems. The photonic technology yields novel power-semiconductor devices, immunity to electromagnetic interference, complete electrical isolation between power and control stages, simplicity of control structure and actuation, dynamic controllability of power semiconductor device yielding systems control at device level and easy control of plurality of power semiconductor devices. The applications of the patented technology encompass high-voltage and high-power distribution and transmission systems, smart grid, pulsed-power systems, fly-by-light electronics and electrical actuators, ultra-high-frequency electronics, very-high-voltage inverters for direct grid interface in megawatt-level…











May 9, 2012
Over the last 12 months UIC's Department of Computer Science has received over $7.5 million in federal grant funds in the area of electronic security, including a $3.2 million NSF IGERT grant.Congratulations to UIC Computer Science professors Venkat Venkatakrishnan (PI) and Robert Sloan (co-PI) who have just been awarded $1,968,119 for the Scholarships for Service Program; titled "SFS Scholarships in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance," from the National Science Foundation. Students receive tuition and a $20,000 annual stipend and after graduation must work in cybersecurity for a number of years equal to the number of years that they received the scholarship. This is open to both BS and MS students. 5-year duration, September 1, 2012 to August 31, 2017.More on IGERT:…











May 8, 2012












May 8, 2012
WGN 720 radio show "The Green Segment" interviews Prof. Alan Feinerman & Prateek Gupta about their Thermal Conservation Technologies invention.











May 7, 2012
Read press release here:CHE-Kirie_heat_pump_press_release











April 22, 2012
Rodica Baranescu Award for Technical & Leadership Excellence in Commercial Vehicle EngineeringMIE Professor, Dr. Rodica Baranescu establishes an award to celebrate the successes of women in the engineering profession and to recognize their leadership and technical contributions in the Commercial Vehicle Engineering sector. The award serves to broaden the awareness of the reach and impact of women working in the mobility engineering profession.Established in 2011, the award was enabled by a gift from Dr. Rodica Baranescu, an SAE Fellow, past president of SAE international, and a member of the National Academy of Engineering. The award consists of a framed certificate and a trophy.











April 15, 2012












April 9, 2012
Joshua DelaCruz, UIC freshman, with Janet Kashuba, Dir. of Advancement for the College, and Tito Castro of the Philippine Engineers and Scientists Organization (PESO). Joshua received the PESO scholarship at UIC, granted to deserving minority students since 2009.











April 8, 2012
CS professor Bob Sloan quoted in a Sun Times article about protecting your credit card information following the breach at local Barnes and Noble stores.











March 8, 2012
Professors Michael Cho (BioE) & Dino Megaridis (MIE) Named University Scholars. University Scholars are among the very best in their fields and they embody the academic excellence that is the hallmark of the University of Illinois. Each awardee will receive a total of $30,000 over three years to be used to advance their scholarly work.











February 26, 2012












February 20, 2012
The UIC College of Engineering, along with the student-run Engineering Council, proudly coordinated annual activities to celebrate National Engineers Week. They were assisted by many members of the other engineering student societies at UIC.This year, UIC College of Engineering hosted 3 corporate speaker presentations on campus, related to the hot engineering topic of the Engineer's roll in natural disaster prevention and mediation. We welcomed a severe management expert from Exelon to discuss the aftermath of the Fukushima Nuclear Plant Disaster.    Two speakers from the US Army Corps of Engineers to discuss their experience on the recovery mission for the Joplin Missouri Tornado Disaster.   And finally, we had a representative from IDOT to discuss Bridge failures - "Bridge Hits and Dangers."The highlight of…











February 15, 2012












February 8, 2012












February 8, 2012
2011-2012 COE Faculty Research AwardsAt its February 2012 faculty meeting, the College of Engineering honored two junior faculty members with a COE Research Award. These awards are based on excellence in research accomplishment, as measured by scholarly activities, PhD guidance, grants, and other research-focused activities. The awardees are Jakob Eriksson from the Department of Computer Science, and Eduard Karpov from the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering. 











January 18, 2012












January 5, 2012













Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















