
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					College News 2011				




College News 2011








College News 2011















January 8, 2012












November 2, 2011
The College of Engineering is honored to acknowledge recipients of various UIC Awards and Years of Service. Campuswide Employee Recognition Awards Program was held Wednesday, November 2, 2011. Congratulations to all 2011 honorees.View a list of COE honorees











October 20, 2011
Advisory Board – ABThe College of Engineering Advisory Board, an active participatory voice since 1980, brings the involvement of key government, industry, and academia representatives into the development of the college's strategy. This board meets twice a year to:Provide external feedback on areas of curriculum improvement to better prepare our studentsDevelop long-term strategy plansSolicit funding to upgrade and support our research and instructional laboratories, supports on-going research, scholarships and chaired professorshipsSupport career placementParticipate in Industry DaysBOARD MEMBERS AND INDUSTRY REPRESENTED:Chairman of the Board John E. Major Founder and President MTSGPrakash C. Agarwal Philanthropy, Mentoring, InvestmentPrith Banerjee Chief Technology Officer Schneider ElectricMostafa A. Beik Director of Technology Development and Commercialization Argonne National LaboratoryChristopher B. Burke President and CEO Christopher Burke Engineering,…











October 12, 2011












August 17, 2011
UIC Wins $3.2 Million IGERT Grant for Electronic Security and Privacy Study. Prof. Venkat Venkatakrishnan from Computer Science is the Principal Investigator.











August 15, 2011












August 15, 2011
A Washington, D.C.-based international biotech group used UIC Thursday as the venue to name Illinois Governor Pat Quinn as its 2011 "Governor of the Year."Biotechnology Industry Organization, or BIO, cited Quinn for his "leadership and support of the biosciences industry" and "numerous initiatives" important to early-stage biotechnology firms, including Illinois's 2010 Angel Investment Tax Credit Program for qualified new business ventures in the state.The announcement came at a press conference held in the lobby of UIC's Incubator Laboratory Facility, part of the Chicago Technology Park located west of the medical campus.Engineering Dean Peter Nelson opened the event by lauding Quinn as a "longtime friend" and "frequent visitor" to UIC, and he welcomed representatives of BIO and Illinois-based biotechnology firms, many…











August 9, 2011



The College of Engineering Staff Excellence Award recognizes up to 10% of the COE staff for their significant impact on the educational and research mission as well as their contributions to a positive work environment.2011 COE Staff Excellence Award recipients




Phil Beltran - Computer Support Specialist - Electrical and Computer EngineeringKathy Corcos - Program Coordinator - Engineering Career CenterJames Kelly - Civil and Materials Engineering - Senior Project CoordinatorJohn Seim - Mechanical and Industrial Engineering - Laboratory Support SpecialistLuis Silva - Undergraduate Affairs - Assistant Director, Academic Resource CenterElsa Soto- Undergraduate Affairs - Assistant Director, Academic Resource CenterRenata Szandra - COE Administration - Administrative Assistant














August 9, 2011












August 9, 2011
New 2-year $4.2 million IDOT contract to Dean Nelson and team. One of the products of this ongoing work, the regional real-time traffic map.











June 9, 2011
Congratulations to Prof. Venkat Venkatakrishnan who has just received an award of $616,000 for three years from the NSF Trusted Computing for a project entitled:Securing Web Advertisements: Fixing the Short-term Crisis and Addressing Long-term ChallengesThe overall research will be joint with U. Texas Dallas, where Prof. Kevin Hamlen will receive an additional $500,000K, for a total $1.2 million project.Abstract:Malicious and exploitable web advertisements (ads) are widely recognized as a major emerging source of online attacks and privacy violations.  Rogue ads can often escape existing weak defenses employed by ad networks and websites, inflicting much harm on end-users. This ad security crisis is exacerbated by several factors: complex mechanisms by which web ads are produced, distributed and deployed; weak filtering strategies…











March 9, 2011
Congratulations to the five high school students who won this year's UIC College of Engineering awards at the 2011 Chicago City Science Fair. Winners this year are Alexandra Rojek (Northside), Anthony Surganov (Lane), Mary Mussman (Northside), Katrina Wheelan (Alcott) and Joshua Odum (Edison). This annual event features the top 300 Science Fair projects from the city-wide population of ~15,000 high school and middle school students. 











February 17, 2011












February 16, 2011












February 9, 2011
At its February 2011 faculty meeting, the College of Engineering honored three junior faculty members with a COE Research Award. These awards are based on excellence in research accomplishment, as measured by scholarly activities, PhD guidance, grants, and other research-focused activities. The awardees are Daniela Tuninette and Natasha Devroye from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Leilah Lyons from the Department of Computer Science.











January 25, 2011
Best-Executed Teaching Lab Renovation Comes With a Critical Eye To The FutureCELEBRATING ITW’S GIFT TO UIC COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND LIBERAL ARTS AND SCIENCESThe inauguration of the ITW-Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Lab in Civil and Materials Engineering and the ITW-Heat Transfer and Fluid Mechanics Labs in Mechanical and Industrial Engineering on January 25th celebrated a great partnership between a private company - Glenview, IL-based ITW – and a public university, the University of Illinois at Chicago. On hand to cut the ceremonial ribbon and address guests were ITW President David Speer, University of Illinois President Michael J. Hogan and UIC Chancellor Paula Allen-Meares. ITW General Counsel James Wooten, a UIC alumnus whose dedication and belief in UIC helped drive the gift,…











January 25, 2011
The episode is titled "Can We Live Forever" and describes Jason's groundbreaking work on avatars. It is a fascinating segment and amazing PR for UIC, with close to 15 minutes of airtime. Congratulations to Jason and EVL.http://www.pbs.org/video/1754575129/











December 1, 2010
Researchers paint on 20 foot electronic canvas -- Video & story by Marcella McCarthy, Medill Reports Chicago, Northwestern University -- Story by Paul Francuch,UIC News












Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















