
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					College News 2010				




College News 2010








College News 2010















December 1, 2010
A Memorial Gathering in Remembrance of Olubusayo Awomolo, Class of 2008 and ME Graduate Student will be held on Monday, Dec. 6, 2010, from Noon to 1 PM in the ME Atrium, 2nd Floor, ERF.











October 17, 2010
CME Professor and Department Head, Farhad Ansari is featured in a Chicago Tribune article, "High-tech sensors help spot potentially fatal problems with bridges".











October 17, 2010












August 17, 2010
August 17, 2010On 8/17/2010 Illinois Governor Pat Quinn came to UIC to sign House Bills 6202 UTILITIES-NET METERING and HB 5429 HOMEOWNERS SOLAR RIGHTS ACT. Both Bills deal with Renewable Solar Energy and UIC was selected as the venue for this press conference and bill signing at the recommendation of Socor Energy, who installed the solar panels on the roof of Lincoln Hall. The Dean of the College of Engineering, Peter Nelson, talked about the importance of UIC leading the way in using Renewable Energy on campus and developing the next generation of green technologies. The UIC College of Engineering has many outstanding research and education programs related to renewable energy.View VideoView Photos











July 9, 2010
Are you interested in learning a cool 3D-touch technology?The MIE Department introduces the UIC’s first hands-on course on haptics (or the sense of touch) and augmented reality. You’ll learn how to successfully combine high-level 3D graphics, haptics, collision detection and physics-based dynamic simulation for a more realistic interactive experience. You’ll be able to easily develop virtual reality applications to visualize and feel holographic-like virtual objects for engineering, medical, dental and scientific simulation and training.Multiple SensAble Technologies’ Omni haptic devices and PC workstations will be available for the students to develop the projects.Time: MW, 4:30 PM – 5:45 PMPlace: 3290 SELInstructor: Cristian LucianoPre-requisites: NoneRecommended for: Grads and undergradsFurther information: clucia1@uic.edu











May 9, 2010
BioEngineering Professor Michael Cho elected to the College of Fellows of AIMBE, American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering. The official induction is in February next year in Washington DC.











May 9, 2010












April 9, 2010












April 9, 2010












April 7, 2010












April 6, 2010
April 6, 2010Sanyoon Lee, a PhD student in the UIC Department of Computer Science and a Research Assistant in the Electronic Visualization Laboratory (EVL), won first place in the 3rd annual UIC Image of Research contest for his creation of a realistic avatar as part of EVL’s “Project LifeLike.”Lee’s research aims to design and develop a visually compelling digital version of a real human, Dr. Alexander Schwarzkopf, a long-standing program manager at the National Science Foundation (NSF). This representation, or avatar, will serve as an interactive interface to an intelligent decision support system that intelligently responds to user questions about his NSF program via spoken language, with realistic inflection and visual expressions.While many people are familiar with avatars from movies…











April 5, 2010
April 5, 2010DASFAA, an annual international database conference which showcases state-of-the-art R & D activities in database systems and their applications has selected a paper submited by the department of Computer Science for Best Paper Award.The paper is entitled "Detecting Leaders from Correlated Time Series", by Di Wu, Yiping Ke, Jeffrey Xu Yu, Philip S. Yu, Lei ChenA brief description of the paper: Nowadays, the WorldWideWeb is full of rich information, including text data, XML data, multimedia data, time series data, etc. The web is usually represented as a large graph and PageRank is computed to rank the importance of web pages. This paper studies the problem of ranking evolving time series and discovering leaders from them by analyzing lead-lag…











March 17, 2010
Building the next generation of computers. ECE assistant professor Zhichun Zhu is helping to build the next generation of computers that can house hundreds or even thousands of core processors











March 9, 2010
A UIC start-up company, ImmersiveTouch, founded by MIE professor, Dr. Pat Banerjee recently sold its haptic augmented VR surgical system to Medical Education & Research Institute (MERI) in Memphis











February 28, 2010
February 28, 2010The February 28, 2010 issue of USA TODAY reported that the Princeton Review and GamePro magazine selected the best institutions in the USA and Canada where students can go to study game design. They chose 50 programs based on a 2009-2010 survey of administrators at institutions offering game design coursework and/or degrees. UIC is one of the distinguished institutions that made the overall Top 50 list -- and we can only presume it is because of the UIC Computer Science "Video Game Design and Development" class taught by EVL Director Jason Leigh.Selection criteria for the Undergraduate Game Design Program list included the quality of the curriculum, faculty credentials, facilities and infrastructure as well as data on scholarships, financial…











February 10, 2010












February 9, 2010












January 17, 2010
CME PROFESSOR ROBERT H. BRYANTThe Memorial Service is Sunday 01/17/2010 at 2:00 PM at Robert's church,North Shore United Methodist Church 213 Hazel Ave. (corner of Greenleaf and Hazel Avenues) Glencoe, Illinois 60022Robert Bryant "was a cornerstone of the department." From UIC News, Paul Francuch Robert Bryant, 72, a leading structural engineering consultant and emeritus faculty member in civil and materials engineering, died Jan. 6.“He was a cornerstone of the department,” said Farhad Ansari, professor and department head who first met Bryant as a UIC graduate student.Chien Wu, professor of civil and materials engineering, remembers Bryant as “such a special, yet ordinary man, who was most dedicated to his work and family.”Longtime colleague Donald Lemke, associate professor of civil and materials…












Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















