



















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Minor in Environmental Engineering
Minor in Materials Engineering


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Student Organizations

ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers)
Engineers Without Borders (EWB)
Institute of Transportation Engineers
NSBE (National Society of Black Engineers)
SWE (Society of Women Engineers)
SHPE (Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers)
Structural Engineers Association Of Illinois (SEAOI)
Tau Beta Pi (Engineering Honors Society)


CME Job Board
Career Center
Living in the City


RESEARCH

Research Labs
Environmental Science (IESP)
Urban Transportation (UTC)


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
CEPAC
Alumni
Faculty Awards
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Seminars
Events
Newsletter
News Archive
Contact Us






 


















 



































































  








					PhD Student Awarded Prestigious EREF Scholarship				

September 26, 2018 


PhD Student Awarded Prestigious EREF Scholarship






 
 


Only a handful of students are awarded scholarships by the Environmental Research and Education Foundation (EREF). This year, UIC’s Girish Kumar, a PhD student in the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering was named a recipient.
This highly competitive and prestigious scholarship recognizes several doctoral students each year working at the forefront of the waste management and engineering field. The winners are selected from an international pool of applicants. Kumar was one of only eight students nationwide selected by the EREF to receive the scholarship in the amount of $14,400 for his research.
“My research is focused on understanding the fundamental processes that occur within the waste when it is dumped in a landfill and mathematically interpret those processes to be able to predict the behavior of the entire landfill system. This will ultimately help in designing stable, effective and more importantly sustainable landfills” said Kumar.
His research offers an alternative to the conventional landfills in the form of bioreactor landfills. In these landfills, the collected chemical liquid derived from waste degradation and other permitted liquids are recirculated into the landfills via recirculation systems to enhance the moisture conditions and accelerate waste degradation. The benefits including enhanced biogas production and early waste stabilization among others.
Kumar is working with his academic advisor Professor Krishna R. Reddy, the director of the  and the , on a NSF-funded project to develop a practical and reliable coupled thermo-hydro-bio-mechanical model that can enable safe design and operation of stable, effective and sustainable engineered landfills.
“His understanding on the fundamental tenets of geotechnical engineering and geomechanics is commendable and he demonstrates excellent capacity on analytical work” said Reddy. “I have observed that he possesses great motivation and drive to live up to the standards expected of a doctoral student. He works as a graduate research assistant in our lab and makes it a point to be involved in other research projects as well.”
Additionally, Girish assists his lab colleagues working on another NSF-funded project that involves mitigating landfill gas emissions using steel slag amended biocover systems. The project proposes an innovative, low-cost and practical biogeochemical cover system that utilizes biochar to oxidize landfill methane emissions into carbon dioxide and subsequently sequester carbon dioxide via mineral carbonation using steel slag, thus rendering zero emissions through landfill covers.
As the President of the Sustainable Remediation Forum student chapter at UIC, Girish is constantly engaged beyond the walls of the laboratory by organizing expert lectures and seminars from academicians and industry professionals to keep himself aware of the technical know-how of different fields.
More information about EREF scholarships can be found at . More information about the research can be found at the  and the .
By David Staudacher, UIC
 



Facebook


Twitter


Google Plus


Linkedin


Tumblr


Email












You may also like

















davidst






PreviousThree New Faculty Members Join CME


NextCME Student Helps Team Win at ‘Student Days Competition’









Search

  Recent Posts 
















Recent CommentsArchives 




































Categories 























Meta 

RSS
RSS
 
 





 
Connect With Us 
 
    
  (312) 996-2426

Quick Links





 
Make a Gift
RESOURCES





 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















