
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					Student News 2017				




Student News 2017








Student News 2017















September 15, 2017
Congratulations to our Image of Research winners! The Image of Research exhibition is the annual interdisciplinary exhibit competition organized by the Graduate College and University Library to showcase the breadth and diversity of research at UIC.  "Intelligent Welding" by Alexandra Del Carmen Basantes Defaz, Materials Engineering; 2nd Place"Intelligent Welding" I am not your stereotypical welder. I am an M.S. student in the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering conducting research in UIC’s Welding Laboratory under the direction of Professors Ernesto Indacochea and Didem Ozevin. I am researching traditional welding techniques and autonomous welding in “real-time” to avoid defects. It addresses weld quality assurance by developing a combined real-time diagnosis, decision, and control system based on multi-sensor fusion and machine learning methodology. The…











August 29, 2017
Visit the UIC Involvement Fair on September 6-7 for an opportunity to connect with UIC Engineering student organizations. More than twenty College-sponsored organizations provide students with opportunities to apply their passion for engineering and develop leadership, teamwork, and hands-on technical skills.The UIC Involvement Fair will take place from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Sept. 6 and 7 in the Lecture Center Quad.Click here for a list of our student organizations, or visit the UIC Connection website.











July 14, 2017
Embracing and partnering with the community is one of the key elements of UIC’s strategic priorities. And 16 students in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) are taking this mission to heart and using their engineering knowledge and skills to help four Chicago nonprofits.











June 7, 2017
UIC's robotics team, the Chicago Engineering Design Team (EDT), won the Second Place Caterpillar Autonomous Award at the 2017 NASA Robotic Mining Competition. The competition, held at the Kennedy Space Center, challenged teams to design and build a robot that can dig and collect basaltic regolith simulant and autonomously navigate a simulated Martian terrain—objectives designed to help NASA find innovative ways to excavate well-insulated water ice. Chicago EDT beat 44 teams including Purdue University, Illinois Institute of Technology, University of Michigan, and UIUC in its fifth year participating in the competition.Visit chicagoedt.org for more information.











April 4, 2017
Our Engineering Expo will be on Friday, April 21, 2017 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. It will take place at the UIC Forum, 725 W. Roosevelt Road.











April 3, 2017
L-R: Chase Lee, Shawn Kim, Michael Baccia, Daniel Stempniewicz, Daniel Moreno, and Oliver Hui. Photo courtesy of Wes Agresta, Argonne National Laboratory.--A team of UIC computer science students won first place at the 2017 Cyber Defense Competition, a contest organized by Argonne National Laboratory that challenged teams to design a secure network and defend it against attackers. The UIC team beat out 15 college teams including the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Indiana University, and Iowa State University at the event on April 1.











March 27, 2017
Bioengineering senior Sarita Deshpande is one of 36 American students to win the prestigious Gates Cambridge Scholarship for graduate studies at the University of Cambridge. She is the fourth UIC student to win one of the scholarships since the program was established through a $210 million donation from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000. Read more about her post-graduation plans here.











March 23, 2017
Engineering Commencement Ceremony,  Saturday, May 6, 2017,  UIC Pavilion.  Start time 2:00 (doors open at 1:00)











February 28, 2017
Students in UIC’s chapter of Engineering World Health (EWH) use engineering skills to develop solutions for improving healthcare around the world. Their latest completed project—a laminar flow hood—was built to help the Nhi Dong 1 Pediatric Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, reduce the rate of hospital-acquired infections.“Hospital-acquired infections are a problem all over the world,” says Miiri Kotche, PhD, the group’s faculty advisor and a clinical professor in the Richard and Loan Hill Department of Bioengineering. “The laminar flow hood is one small way students can help improve global health.”The flow hood—or sanitary cabinet—will provide an aseptic workspace for preparing intravenous medication in the NICU unit at the hospital. Its design includes a high efficiency particle-arresting (HEPA) filter…












Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















