
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					Student News 2016				




Student News 2016








Student News 2016















May 3, 2016
Her messaging app called Clean Slate. Read more here.











April 22, 2016












March 5, 2016
May 12 isn’t an ordinary Tuesday for members of UIC’s Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES); it’s Drew Reed’s sixth birthday.Drew, who was born without a right hand or wrist, received a one-of-a-kind birthday gift from the team: a custom-made, 3D-printed prosthetic arm. Using a mold of Drew’s “lucky fin” for exact measurements, BMES modeled and created three prototypes, each one made out of thousands of stacked, 2D-printed layers.The work started after bioengineering student Samuel Dreyer (BS ’16), the group’s president for the 2015-2016 academic year, heard about a network called e-NABLE that enlists volunteer groups to build 3D-printed prosthetics for kids. “I knew right away I needed to get UIC involved,” he said. So he signed up, recruited members of BMES,…











February 9, 2016





Mechanical and Industrial Engineering student Poya Yasaei is a winner. He has been selected as a finalist for the Graduate Student Award for the 2015 The Materials Research Society (MRS) Fall Meeting on Dec. 1 in Boston. He is one of only 29 students in the world to be selected for the award.Yasaei is working on his Ph.D. under the direction of Assistant Professor Amin Salehi-Khojin in the Nanomaterial and Energy System Laboratory in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC. He is part of an interdisciplinary research group with the mission to advance the state of the knowledge at the boundary of science and engineering. The team pursues fundamental research in the field of advanced materials synthesis,…











January 9, 2016













Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















