
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					Student News 2011				




Student News 2011








Student News 2011















August 10, 2016












August 10, 2016












August 10, 2016
The Pi Tau Sigma National Convention is an annual event where PTS chapters from across the nation, and occasionally from outside the nation, meet to discuss national agenda items as well as update the national board on the status of their chapter. In addition to the convention, chapters often get to tour the hosting chapter's school as well as hear corporate speakers discuss their experiences. On February 11th-13th our very own UIC Alpha Sigma chapter of PTS hosted the 90th National Convention. The convention was an immense success with sponsorship from ITW, Caterpillar, GE, Schlumberger, Boeing, ITT, and Navistar. Attendance was above 225 with students and advisors attending events. Convention events included corporate presentations, UIC lab tours, a career fair,…











August 10, 2016
This three day event consisted of 18 different colleges in the Great Lakes Region with a total of 7 individual competitions including Steel Bridge and Concrete Canoe. UIC excelled in each individual competition and was crowned the ASCE Great Lakes Champion, beating other top contending schools such as University of Illinois-Urbana Champaign, University of Evansville, and University of Wisconsin-Madison. ASCE UIC Student Chapter OVERALL FINAL RESULTS Surveying 1 – UIC 2 – Trine 3 – Bradley 4 – UWM 5 – Rose-Hulman 6 – Marquette 7 – Evansville 8 – MSOE 9 – USI 10 – IPFW 11 – IIT 12 – Valpo 13 – UW-Madison Environmental 1 – Trine 1 2 – UIC 1 3 – Marquette 4 –…











August 10, 2016












August 10, 2016
With the help of MIE, Whitney Young high school students are creating Biodiesel. Their story is featured in this ABC News report.











August 10, 2011
Congratulations to EVL graduate student (M.S. in Computer Science) Arthur Nishimoto on his neat project and the corresponding video that has gone viral.











August 10, 2011
An inspiring human interest story about a UIC Computer Science (CS) undergraduate student, now a graduate student whose obsession with video games is turning into a successful career path.While taking the CS Video Game Design & Development course, Ed Kahler's talents came to the attention of his teacher, Jason Leigh, who subsequently hired him to work at the UIC Electronic Visualization Laboratory (EVL) with NSF REU (Research Experiences for Undergraduates) funds. Kahler's hardware talents made him one of the lead developers of TacTile, EVL's successful touch table. That success encouraged him to continue his education at UIC, and Kahler is now completing a CS master's degree. Meanwhile, TacTile came to the attention of collaborators at Argonne National Laboratory, whose UIC/EVL…











May 10, 2011
CME student, has multiple talents: professional percussionist, member of the Honors College and named 2011 Udall Scholar by the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation












Return to Current News 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















