
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Minor in Environmental Engineering
Minor in Materials Engineering


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Student Organizations

ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers)
Engineers Without Borders (EWB)
Institute of Transportation Engineers
NSBE (National Society of Black Engineers)
SWE (Society of Women Engineers)
SHPE (Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers)
Structural Engineers Association Of Illinois (SEAOI)
Tau Beta Pi (Engineering Honors Society)


CME Job Board
Career Center
Living in the City


RESEARCH

Research Labs
Environmental Science (IESP)
Urban Transportation (UTC)


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
CEPAC
Alumni
Faculty Awards
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Seminars
Events
Newsletter
News Archive
Contact Us






 


















 



































































  








					Scholarships				




Scholarships











SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE FROM THE CME DEPARTMENT
Through the generosity of donors and partners, the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering is able to provide its students the opportunity to apply for multiple scholarships. Their support helps us in our mission to continue to provide access to excellence and success for our engineering students. Applications for the scholarships below can be found at . 






Alfred Benesch Scholarship – Spearheaded by executives at Alfred Benesch, including Harold Sandberg and Muthiah Kasi, this scholarship is for a senior-level student with high scholastic achievement.


Robert E. Bernd Scholarship – Provides need-based scholarships to engineering students who reside in the greater Chicagoland area and who are dependent on their own financial means to obtain their education. Established by Robert Bernd, a 1970 graduate in Communications Engineering.


Professor Robert H. Bryant Scholarship – Honors the late Professor Robert Bryant who served many years in the department.


Christopher B. and Susan S. Burke Civil Engineering Graduate Student Award – The poster competition is judged by all CME faculty during the competition. Faculty members talk with each student and judge based upon the poster and presentation quality and technical proficiency. The votes are tallied and the winners are selected with the highest scores. This award is divided among three Ph.D. graduate students with 3.5 to 4.0 GPA.


Rosemary Burke Scholarship – This scholarship was created to honor Christopher Burke’s many services to the department. This award is for incoming freshman students.


E.E. Carter Opportunity Scholarship – Designated for female Hispanic engineering students who finish their degree within six years. This scholarship repays a portion of the recipient’s loan debt upon graduation.


CEPAC Scholarship – This scholarship was created by the  board. Scholarship support to sophomore and junior-level students with high scholastic achievement. This scholarship is awarded to 1 to 5 sophomore and junior level students with high scholastic achievement from the Civil Engineering Professional Advisory Council ().


Clark Dietz Scholarship – Awarded to junior or senior-level minority students in civil engineering.


Professor Edward H. Coe Scholarship – This scholarship was created to honor Edward H. Coe who was a colonel in charge of an engineering corps in World War II serving 33 years in the U.S. Army. Edward Coe was a civil engineering professor at UIC.


Dean’s Scholarship (UIC College of Engineering) – This scholarship is awarded to any student in the UIC College of Engineering based on financial need.


Colonel William J. Hawes Scholarship – Established by UIC College of Engineering alumnus Bill Hawes, this scholarship gives first-preference to students enrolled in ROTC or members of the U.S. Army Reserve. When there are no candidates, then a high-achieving student is awarded this scholarship.


Nancy Anderson Holmes Scholarship – Scholarship support to civil engineering students, established by Nancy Anderson Holmes, a triple-degree holder in the UIC College of Engineering.

 





Illinois Road & Transportation Builders Assoc. (IRTBA) Scholarship – Scholarship support to civil engineering students.
Kasi Foundation Scholarship – The Kasi Scholarship, established by Muthiah Kasi, Chairman of Alfred Benesh and UIC College of Engineering Advisory Board member is open to all students in good standing in civil engineering.
Knowles, Inc. Scholarship for Women Engineers – This scholarship is used both for recruitment of high achieving freshman female students and retention of current female students who are members of the Society of Women Engineers and demonstrate most improved GPA.
Professor Dusan Krajcinovic Scholarship – This scholarship was created to honor Dusan Krajvinovic who was a civil engineering professor at UIC.
Olive Chacey Kuehn and Alfred L. Kuehn Scholarship – The Olive Chacey Kuehn and Alfred L. Kuehn Scholarship was established to fund scholarships for needy, able, and deserving men in Engineering.
Wilfred F. and Ruth Davison Langelier Scholarship – Available to civil engineering students with an interest in sanitary or environmental engineering, principally concerned with the area of water and waste water treatment and environmental water quality management and control.
Kenneth E. Nelson Scholarship – Scholarship support to civil engineering students, established by UIC College of Engineering alumnus,  Chair, and College of Engineering Advisory Board member Kenneth Nelson.
Samartano & Company/Henry Marek Scholarship – The Samartano/Henry Marek scholarship was created by James Samartano to honor the late Henry Marek who worked at his company. Henry Marek was a civil engineering alum who graduated in 1950 from Urbana.
Sargent and Lundy Scholarship – Scholarships are designated for students majoring in either civil and materials engineering, electrical and computer engineering, or mechanical engineering who are U.S. citizens and who maintain a 3.0 GPA.
Thomas and Romana Ting Scholarship – This scholarship honors Professor Thomas Ting who served many years in the department and has since retired.
Turner Construction Scholarship – Established by UIC College of Architecture and the Arts alumnus Gregory A. Mulac, this scholaship is awarded to high-achieving students in civil engineering.
T.Y. Lin International Engineering Merit Scholarship – Established by UIC College of Engineering alumna Heather Gaffney, this scholaship is awarded to high-achieving students in civil engineering.
Xerox Scholarship – Awarded to Hispanic students based on merit or financial need.
  





ADDITIONAL SCHOLARSHIP OPPORTUNITIES





– for minority students pursuing a technical degree program; undergraduate and graduate students who are of African American, Asian, Pacific Islander, Native American, Native Alaskan, or Hispanic descent.
 – Incoming freshmen and continuing female students.
Robert E. Bernd Engineering Scholarship – Sophomore, Junior or Senior with a 3.0/4.0 GPA. Must be a U.S. citizen. Qualifies for the Federal Pell Grant, but still has unmet financial need, with preference given to students who reside in the city and commute to campus. Dependent on own efforts to pay tuition for education.
Caterpillar Scholarships – 3.0/4.0 GPA. Minority students including women. Not available to incoming freshmen or BioE majors.
COE Dean’s Scholarships – Incoming freshmen female students.
Dean’s Engineering Merit Scholarships – Incoming freshmen female students.
Paul M. Chung Scholarship – 3.0/4.0 GPA.
Richard A. Cohn Scholarship for Women in Engineering – Sophomore academic standing. Hispanic, U.S. citizen eligible for Stafford loans.
Engineering Alumni Association Scholarship – Demonstrated exceptional leadership attributes through participation in UIC professional engineering student societies. 3.0/4.0 GPA.
Engineering Annual Merit Scholarship Award (Engineering Systems Inc – ESI Scholarship) – 3.0/4.0 GPA.
Engineering Annual Merit Scholarship award (Jack Goldfarb Scholarship) – 3.0/4.0 GPA.
Irene N. Jones Scholarship – Multiple scholarships. Worthy, deserving and needy. Personal residence/home located in either Cook or Will County, Illinois. 3.0/4.0 GPA.





Victor and Lucy Kan Family Scholarship – Multiple scholarships. U.S. citizen, academic merit and financial need, 3.0/4.0 GPA. Preference for students with significant financial need.
John and Susan Major Scholarship – Two incoming freshmen female students.
J.L. Meece Scholarship – 3.0/4.0 GPA.
B.J. Merkle Scholarship – Demonstrated academic ability. 3.0/4.0 GPA. Preference given to a student who also has a strong interest in liberal arts studies.
Francis C. Moon Scholarship – Freshman or sophomore. 3.0/4.0 GPA.
Glenn and Linda Neland Scholarship – One recipient. Merit based. Graduate of a City of Chicago public high school, with preference given to candidates who served in a branch of the U.S. military.
Hannes and Anne Nelson Scholarship – Financial need. Parent is/was employed by Ameritech, SBC, AT&T, Illinois Bell, Lucent or Alcatel. 3.0/4.0 GPA.
Niva S. Oghigian Future Women Engineers Scholarship – 3.0/4.0 GPA. Academic merit. Female U.S. Citizen.
Norman Parker Scholarship – Junior standing. Strong academic record. Displays leadership qualities. Has a background of service to UIC and/or the community. 3.0/4.0 GPA.
PESO Scholarship – Incoming freshman. Under-represented minority in Engineering (Filipino). Preference to first year student.
Roy Howard Pollack Scholarship – Multiple scholarships available. Demonstrated academic excellence, financial need, involvement in extracurricular activities at UIC.
William D. Unger Scholarship – Ten incoming freshmen female students; three multi-year awards from last year.
Sarah Smith Wilson Scholarship – 3.0/4.0 GPA.(Preference to BioE)





 Comments and questions can be directed to . 


 











 
Connect With Us 
 
    
  (312) 996-2426

Quick Links





 
Make a Gift
RESOURCES





 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















