
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Current Students				




Current Students











As you plan your academic career at the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, please take advantage of the following resources to ensure your continued success. If you cannot find the information you need on this page, please contact the department for further guidance.


Plan your semester













Find a Fellowship


GRADUATE









UNDERGRADUATE





Find a Scholarship







Find your niche







Undergraduate Forms



 – Major Modification Form is submitted when a substitution is needed under the student’s current curriculum. Replacement course must be equivalent in the relevant ABET factors such as design content, computer usage, etc.


 – (EM/IE/ME 392) Undergraduate student conducts research under close supervision of a faculty member. Course may be repeated to a maximum of 6 hours. Instructor and department approval is needed before enrollment. Major Modification form is needed if course will be used as a technical elective and it is not listed as a technical elective under major’s curriculum.


EM Major Curriculum:
Before Fall 2007



Current





IE Major Curriculum:
Before Fall 2007



Current





ME Major Curriculum:
Before Fall 2007



Current






ME and IE Course Descriptions






















Additional Information for Current Students from the UIC College of Engineering







Honors Students Information







Important Dates







Graduate Student Advisory Committee


The MIE Graduate Advisory Committee has compiled the following documents to help new graduate students make the transition to attending graduate school at UIC.











 











 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















