
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Student Organizations				




Student Organizations












The University of Illinois Alumni Association is an independent, not-for-profit 501(c)3 organization, governed by a volunteer board of directors. Its purpose is to foster and maintain a mutually beneficial relationship between the University of Illinois and its global alumni community. It serves as a compelling and collaborative advocate by creating a broadly inclusive, highly informed and significantly engaged network of dedicated alumni. 





American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) 
The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) chapter at the University of Illinois at Chicago is a student run organization located in Region III. It is primarily dedicated to the study of aerospace and propulsion engineering. The teams design and build remote controlled aircraft’s, high powered rockets, and quad-copters. 





American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) 
The Illinois chapter of American Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers is the largest chapter in ASHRAE with more than 1,300 members. Its mission is to advance the arts and sciences of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigerating to serve humanity and promote a sustainable world. 






ASME provides its members with the opportunity to see where mechanical engineering applies in the world, network with other ME’s inside and outside the campus, learn what is going on in the profession today, meet interested engineering companies looking to hire, and much more. ASME is your path to achieving excellence and a better career. 






The Engineering Design Team was created by a group of engineering students whose interests were grounded in technology and robotics. The club is designed to give students a chance to use their engineering knowledge to design and build robots in order to achieve a set of goals while competing against other teams. Members can expect to become part of an active and capable team that holds a strong passion for what they do. The experience and knowledge that they gain will nurture their passion to excel as UIC students and help them develop professional engineering attitudes. 





(IIE)
The Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers at UIC is dedicated to developing a greater network of Industrial Engineers, connecting students with the right business professionals, sharing resources, focusing heavily on career development, and striving for excellence in all that they do. 





Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Graduate Student Council (MIEGSC)
MIEGSC is a diverse body of graduate student representatives from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. Its objectives are to improve the research quality of UIC by increasing student awareness in emerging fields, increase the recognition of research at UIC by national laboratories, institutions, and industries. Additionally, it promote interaction between graduate students and faculty by organizing end-of-semester parties, provide a formal platform to our fellow graduate students to invite someone for a seminar of their interests, and encourage graduate students to present their work to fellow students for constructive criticism and feedback. 





Pi Tau Sigma Mechanical Engineering Honor Society
Pi Tau Sigma is the National Mechanical Engineering Honor Society and is a member of the Association of College Honor Societies. Objectives of Pi Tau Sigma is to foster high ideals in the engineering profession, stimulate and support departmental activities, promote professional welfare, and develop leadership and citizenship. The organization hosts peer tutoring sessions for mechanical students in need of some help with their studies. 





Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE)
The UIC Student Chapter of the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE International) strives to promote a learning environment for all members by bettering technical, design, and practical skills within the society and into the professional world. The students design, manufacture, test, and race a mini Baja vehicle and a formula race car for rigorous collegiate competitions. 





Student Activities at the College of Engineering
UIC and the College of Engineering offer numerous student activities to complement your learning experience. Please visit the College of Engineering’s Student Activities page for more exciting opportunities. 





See all of the more than .


 











 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















