
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Industrial Advisory Board				




Industrial Advisory Board











Industrial Advisory Board
The Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department has a new Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) with a mission to assist the department in working closer with industry.
The IAB coordinator is Dr. Constantine M. Megaridis, who, together with MIE Department Head Dr. Farzad Mashayek, brings a wealth of experience in both teaching and research in industrial relations and consulting. The IAB will play a key role in reshaping our education of future Mechanical and Industrial engineers.
The members are outstanding professionals representing a broad range of industrial firms including Abbott Laboratories, Gas Technology Institute, and UOP. Two additional members represent Argonne National Laboratory and Illinois Institute of Technology.
The Board’s first meeting was held on June 21, 2001. Members visited MIE laboratories and were informed of the current curriculum as well as the need to enhance the undergraduate program to meet the technological changes ahead.The Board exchanged ideas and asked some questions that are both constructive and critical to the education of our engineering students. In turn, the board was asked to consider the following questions:
For our current students, where do you see the need to accelerate their development of practical knowledge so that they be better prepared for their jobs and more productive?
How can we help our graduate students to reduce their post-hiring training period so they can tackle real problems?
Several of our IAB members offered the following suggestions:


Teach the fundamentals well;


Encourage more internships with companies through the existing Co-op program;


Provide more tours of plants and manufacturing facilities;


Teach the students an integrated level of thinking;


Provide linkage between different disciplines;


Encourage teamwork;


Improve English skills;


Focus on formulating problem objectives.

The IAB ideas are extremely important to our faculty as we embark in curriculum changes and enhancements of existing courses. The Board has revisited some of these ideas and reviewed changes in its December meeting.
Industrial Advisory Board Members






Said Al-Hallaj, Co-Founder and Chairman/CEO – 


Peyman Davoudabadi, Principal Engineer –


Christina Martini, Partner – 


Brad Mueller, Chief Operating Officer – 







Majid Naghshineh, Director of Business Development – 


Rudi Schick, Vice President and Chief Science Officer – 


David Smith, Professor – 


Michel Thenin, President – 



 











 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















