
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Open Positions				




Open Positions











FACULTY POSITIONS

Postdoctoral Research Associate – Mechanical Engineering (Job ID #101533)
Department: Engineering/Mechanical and Industrial Engineering
Category: Postdoc Res Assoc
Location: Chicago
Close Date: 04/30/2019
Description:
The Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) is seeking applications for Postdoctoral Research Associate to conduct research in the area of complex fluid mechanics and fluid dynamics and to assist in developing and testing objectives.
Duties:
Applicants are expected to have a strong foundation in Fluid mechanics and Fluid dynamics. Candidates with experience on suspension flows and/or flow over porous media are preferred. MATLAB and Machine shop experience are a plus. Excellent communication and written skills are required along with demonstrated success in previous academic research. Additionally, the selected candidate will be expected to oversee students, write reports and publish peer-reviewed journal articles.
The position is available immediately.
Outstanding candidates are invited to submit a letter of application detailing their relevant background, providing the names and e-mail addresses of at least three references, a CV, and copies of relevant reprints and pre-prints.
Send the application (single PDF file) to Dr. Parisa Mirbod (). Send email to Dr. Parisa Mirbod for more information about the research program.
Qualifications:
The Postdoctoral Research Associate must have a PhD in an engineering discipline, good mechanical design skills, and experience in technologies such as MRI, and/or PIV.
The University of Illinois at Chicago is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action employer. Minorities, women, veterans and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply
The University of Illinois conducts background checks on all job candidates upon acceptance of contingent offer of employment. Background checks will be performed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
Apply online at .

PhD Research Assistant – Mechanical Engineering (Job ID #101525)
Department: Engineering/Mechanical and Industrial Engineering
Category: Graduate Assistant
Location: Chicago
Close Date: 05/31/2019
Description:
The Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) is seeking applications for three highly motivated PhD students to conduct research in the area of complex fluid mechanics and fluid dynamics.
Duties:
Applicants are expected to have a strong foundation in Fluid mechanics and Fluid dynamics.
Qualifications:
Candidates with experience on suspension flows and/or flow over porous media are preferred. MATLAB and Machine shop experience are a plus. Excellent communication and written skills are required along with demonstrated success in previous academic research. The candidate will have the opportunity to learn both the theoretical and experimental works related to complex flows over porous media using PIV and MRI.
The appointment includes a stipend and full tuition. Outstanding candidates are invited to submit a letter of application detailing their relevant background, providing the names and e-mail addresses of at least three references, a CV, and copies of relevant reprints and pre-prints.
Send the application (single PDF file) to Dr. Parisa Mirbod (). Send email to Dr. Parisa Mirbod for more information about the research program.
The University of Illinois at Chicago is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action employer. Minorities, women, veterans and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply




STAFF POSITIONS
No open positions at the moment. Please check back.


 











 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















