
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Our Department				




Our Department











Message From the Department Head
Welcome to the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC. Our department is located just outside the vibrant downtown of Chicago and near major hubs for ground, rail and air transportation. The metropolitan Chicago is home to a large number of industries that interact with our faculty and employ our graduates.
We offer BS, MS, and Ph D degrees in each of the disciplines of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. We also offer a BS degree in Engineering Management and a unique Masters of Energy Engineering designed for working professionals. These programs are supported by 21 tenured or tenure-track professors and several additional teaching and research faculty and by substantial annual research funding to support graduate students in their works as researchers in one of our 17 research labs.
Mechanical engineering is one of the oldest fields of engineering, yet it is constantly evolving through its applications in emerging areas. Today, mechanical engineers are not only trained in traditional fields such as fluid mechanics, heat transfer, machine design, and controls, but they also learn how to apply the fundamental principles from physics, chemistry and mathematics to exciting modern fields such as biotechnology and nanotechnology. Mechanical engineering is also one of the broadest fields of engineering and its graduates find jobs in various industries such as energy, aerospace, manufacturing, robotics, and medical devices, just to name a few.
Industrial Engineering is concerned with the analysis, design, improvement, and installation of integrated systems of people, material, information, equipment, and energy. Industrial Engineering is where engineering meets business. Industrial engineers are specially trained to eliminate practices that waste time, money, energy and other resources. Graduates in industrial engineering can work in almost any industry, including manufacturing, healthcare, logistics, transportation, finance, electronics, entertainment and many others.
In addition to our outstanding faculty, funding, and computational and experimental resources, our department provides a congenial atmosphere for undergraduate and graduate studies and for collaborative work with industry and other academic partners. I encourage you to learn as much as you can about our programs. Visit the department and look over our faculty research profiles on our website, talk to our faculty, and meet with our students. I hope you will find that MIE offers the breadth and vision in its undergraduate, graduate, and collaborative programs that you seek, and I invite you to consider becoming a part of this talented and dynamic community.





The Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering
The Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering at the is committed to excellence in research, teaching, and service to the community.
Mechanical Engineering is essential to a wide range of activities that include the design, development, manufacture, management, and control of engineering systems, subsystems, and their components. Typically the manufacturing, power, aerospace, automotive, materials, and processing industries employ mechanical engineers. As a result of the recent rapid expansion of technology, mechanical engineers also have become increasingly involved in computer aided design and visualization; robotics; bioengineering; environmental engineering; solar, wind, and ocean energy sources; and space exploration. The breadth of the field provides the graduate with many possibilities for a satisfying career.
Currently, there are more than 30 professors of national and international stature actively engaged in research areas at the leading edge of technology whom have degrees from prestigious universities across the country. Faculty are involved in many research areas including
MEMS (Microelectrical Mechanical Systems), virtual reality, combustion, environmental science, thermal science, dynamics and control, mechatronics, bioengineering, manufacturing and processing. The Department's comprehensive five-year research budget is approximately $13M and is comprised of funding primarily from government agencies and industry via grants, contracts and gifts. The large number of major archival journals and reference books published and edited by the faculty also enhances the reputation of the Department.The Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering offers comprehensive programs leading to the degrees of B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering, Industrial Engineering and related disciplines. UIC is one of 88 Research-I Universities in the United States and is a widely recognized center for international education and research. Frequently, faculty members include students at both the graduate and undergraduate level in research programs and interactions with industry. Students gain first-hand exposure to real-world engineering problems which, along with their classroom and laboratory work, makes them attractive candidates to many employers after graduation.
The Department is housed in a new $32 million Engineering Research Facility which combines state-of-the-art research laboratories; including a Class 100 Clean Room, two Virtual Reality CAVE theatres, a comprehensive MEMS research center, advanced CAD/CAM and computer lab facilities and lecture rooms.


 











 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















