
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					News				




News















2018









December 4, 2018
Winner of the 2018 UIC Engineering Alumni Outstanding Achievement Award Don McLauchlan, a member of the Master of Energy Engineering Advisory Board, recently won the UIC Engineering Alumni Outstanding Achievement Award. This award is presented to alumni who, through their achievement in their field of engineering, have significantly enhanced the industry and who inspire and help to instill a sense of pride among the alumni, students, faculty and staff of UIC. Don has served as one of Elara Engineering Principals since the firm’s founding in 2001. Prior to that he was Technical Solutions Leader and General Manager for Honeywell after Honeywell’s 1999 acquisition of Arrowhead Environmental Control, the company he owned and was President and CEO of from 1978 to…











November 14, 2018
UIC's Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) hosted “Noche de Ciencias” (Night of Science) on Saturday, Nov. 3rd at Instituto del Progreso Latino to showcase the talent of young students in STEM field. Noche de Ciencias is a national event that occurs to increase interest and promote science, technology, engineering, and math. In Chicago, the event included hands-on activities that showed students in 6th through 12th grades the creativity of engineering while supplying them with information on STEM education and careers. “Our mission is to support our members to successfully achieve in their careers and empower our community to strive for similar success. Noche de Ciencias is an opportunity for SHPE to inspire families to get involved in STEM and…











November 2, 2018
Brady Middleton doesn’t wait for opportunities. He creates them. The industrial engineering student at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) saw a problem and – in true engineering fashion – he came up with a resolution. His answer was the founding of a company called Think773. “I started Think773 with the idea of exposing electronics literacy to youth, makers, and organizations in underserved communities,” said Middleton, who attended the Chicago High School for Agricultural Sciences on the far south side. “I’m addressing this issue by offering affordable electronics kits, workshops, and tutorials that are designed to challenge and illuminate the minds of students, teachers, and makers alike. My secondary goal is to inspire the youth and let them know…











October 11, 2018
Registration is open for UIC’s annual Lunch with an Industrial Engineer open house. Hosted by the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at the University of Illinois at Chicago, the event is set for Saturday, Nov. 17, 2018, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Engineering Research Facility (ERF), 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago. The free event is for area high school students and their parents/guardians to learn about our department’s Industrial Engineering degree program, and the wide-range of careers open to graduates. The lunch will include an interactive information session, lab tours, and hands-on engineering challenges to learn how industrial engineers work in the real world. At the end of this exciting program, we will serve lunch and invite…











September 25, 2018
Tesla has the Model S, Nissan offers the Leaf, and Chevy makes the Bolt. Soon, UIC will have an electric car, too. A new student organization in the College of Engineering called Vehicle Electronics and System Engineering (VESE) is engineering’s newest organization offering students an opportunity to be pioneers as they start designing and building a formula one electric race car to compete in an SAE sanctioned competition next semester in Lincoln, Nebraska, in May. “The beauty of our car is that it is based on electrical systems, but there are mechanical components that have to be built like any other race car,” said Amru Qutub, a student in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) and the president…











September 12, 2018
Sandwiching two-dimensional materials used in nanoelectronic devices between their three-dimensional silicon bases and an ultrathin layer of aluminum oxide can significantly reduce the risk of component failure due to overheating, according to a new study published in the journal of Advanced Materials led by researchers at the University of Illinois at Chicago College of Engineering. Many of today’s silicon-based electronic components contain 2D materials such as graphene. Incorporating 2D materials like graphene — which is composed of a single-atom-thick layer of carbon atoms — into these components allows them to be several orders of magnitude smaller than if they were made with conventional, 3D materials. In addition, 2D materials also enable other unique functionalities. But nanoelectronic components with 2D materials…











August 28, 2018
Earning a master’s degree is not an option for everyone. To provide a choice for busy engineers who want to advance their careers, UIC is offering two new opportunities. The Master of Energy Engineering program in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC has added two graduate certificates that focus on two special areas of interest within its program. Apart from its Master’s Degree, the program is offering certificates in Energy Efficient Building Design and Power Generation. The Energy Efficient Building Design certificate focuses on energy usage and efficiency technologies for commercial buildings. The courses cover heating, ventilating and air-conditioning, industrial energy management, energy markets and contracting and design of energy efficient buildings. The Power Generation certificate is…











August 27, 2018
The University of Illinois at Chicago and Spraying Systems Co. hosted researchers, industrialists, students and academics from all backgrounds for the 14th International Conference on Liquid Atomization and Spray Systems - ICLASS 2018. The conference, which is hosted in the United States once every nine years, was held from July 22 through the 26, and served as an excellent opportunity to showcase UIC to nearly 500 researchers from around the world. The event is the largest conference the Institute for Liquid Atomization and Spray Systems has hosted to date. ICLASS provides an opportunity for the international community to convene and share information, experiences and technical advances in liquid atomization and spray system optimization. “Several UIC faculty members work in areas…











August 24, 2018
For the first time, researchers have successfully printed a complete, albeit experimental, lithium-ion battery including a solid-state electrolyte. While electrodes have been produced using 3D-printing technology before, researchers at the University of Illinois at Chicago College of Engineering have printed a stable, yet flexible, solid-state electrolyte using an elevated-temperature extrusion printing technique. They report their findings in the journal Advanced Materials. Lithium-ion batteries are commonly used in home and portable electronics, and in some motor vehicles. They function by the movement of lithium ions from the negative electrode through an electrolyte, which can be liquid or solid, to the positive electrode during discharge and then back during the charge phase. Mass producing these batteries is a laborious and expensive process. The electrodes and…











July 24, 2018
Using an advanced, new microscopy technique that can visualize chemical reactions occurring in liquid environments, researchers have discovered a new reason lithium-oxygen batteries — which promise up to five times more energy than the lithium-ion batteries that power electric vehicles and cell phones — tend to slow down and die after just a few charge/discharge cycles. They report their findings in the journal Nano Energy. “What we were able to see for the first time is that lithium peroxide develops in the liquid electrolyte of lithium-oxygen batteries, and is a contributor to the slow down and ultimate death of these batteries,” said Reza Shahbazian-Yassar, associate professor of mechanical and industrial engineering in the University of Illinois at Chicago College of…











July 20, 2018
The UIC chapter of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) recently won first place in the “30K Solid Rocket-Student Research and Developed Components” category during the second annual Spaceport America CUP at the Las Cruces Convention Center in New Mexico. The team competed with its first student built motor as they successfully flew it and recovered it. This is the first time UIC has won first place at IREC. The team also captured a third-place win with its commercial rocket. Both rockets were flown to approximately 30,000 feet as they topped schools like Purdue, Stanford, and the University of Minnesota. The Spaceport America Cup is a partnership between the Experimental Sounding Rocket Association (ESRA) and the New Mexico…











June 25, 2018
Professor Yarin Developing New Blood Spatter Models to Better Reconstruct Crime ScenesBlood spatter can provide a lot of information to an investigator at a crime scene. Unfortunately, current methods do not tell the whole story. UIC Distinguished Professor Alexander Yarin and his colleagues have shown that investigators can gather more accurate information. Their blood spatter research has the potential to change crime scene investigations in the same way DNA changed other police investigations.Yarin and his associates made a splash in the science and law enforcement communities with their research on blood spatter with their papers, Prediction of Blood Backspatter from a Gunshot in Bloodstain Pattern Analysis, which was published in the journal Physical Review Fluids in 2016, High-Speed Video Analysis…











June 21, 2018
MIE Assistant Professor Sushant Anand and his research associates have had multiple breakthroughs with their work on oil-water mixtures or “emulsions.” Now, the researchers have taken their research to a new level by creating ultra-small (100-400 nm in sizes) nanoemulsions formed by self-assembly of nanoparticles around droplets.The traditional way to make nanoemulsions has multiple steps, but Anand and his team have developed a single-step technique for creating nanoemulsions that is faster, more energy efficient, and smaller. The results of the research were recently published in ACS Applied Materials and Interfaces journal under the title Synthesizing Pickering Nanoemulsions by Vapor Condensation.“Nanotechnology has a huge role to play in dealing with many problems in today’s time. Take oil-water emulsions as an example.…











June 4, 2018
https://youtu.be/BDdKfT2Vd4M?t=24m11s UIC was honored to host Industrial Engineering alumnus Jim D’Angelo (BS ’07), chief operating officer of Lou Malnati’s Pizzeria, who gave the commencement address during the 51st annual commencement ceremony on May 13 at the UIC Pavilion. D’Angelo shared his educational and life experiences with the graduating class and their families in the audience. The full commencement can be viewed at commencement ceremony.











May 25, 2018
MIE students showed their innovation and creativity during the 29th Annual UIC Engineering Senior Design Expo on Friday, April 27, at the UIC Forum. MIE students were among more than 528 seniors from the College of Engineering (COE) presenting within 27 project categories. They produced 15 Best in Category winning teams in the 12 categories — some categories had two winners — in which they participated.The Best in Category In the Building Services Engineering category, the team of Alex Bashqawi, Michael C. Gonzalez, Erik I Pyshnov, Skyler Wilkinson, and Jingwei Wu won for their project ASHRAE 2018 Student Design Competition: HVAC System Design. The students were sponsored by UIC ASHARE.Two MIE teams were named winners in the Consumer Product Development category. The…











May 10, 2018
UIC’s Master of Energy Engineering (MEE) students continue their winning ways. Students Hardik Miyani, Lisa White and Zaki Mafraji were recently named winners of the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Illinois Chapter 2018 Scholarships.Miyani and White were awarded $1,500, and Mafraji received $750. The students were three of only five people to receive the scholarships. UIC students have been awarded scholarships every year since 2011.The scholarships are geared toward encouraging undergraduates to pursue studies in engineering, science or mathematics that would be fundamental for a career in the heating, ventilating, refrigeration and air conditioning field. The scholarships are awards each year and based on academic merit, stewardship and student participation in ASHRAE.“Winning the Chicago ASHRAE scholarships is…











May 2, 2018
MIE Lecturer Jonathan Komperda has been named a 2018 Silver Circle Award. Since 1966, the Silver Circle Award has been presented to some of UIC’s best teachers. Winners, who are honored at their college commencements, receive $500 and their names join a long list of distinguished colleagues. But what makes the award especially meaningful is its selection committee: the graduating seniors.Learn more about Komperda at Silver Circle Winners.











April 27, 2018
In Memoriam: Professor Faydor L. LitvinJanuary 21, 1914 – April 26, 2017On April 26, 2017, the scientific community of mechanical engineers worldwide lost a renowned scientist and educator who dedicated his life to the development of the modern theory of gearing and made enormous contributions to the development of the theory of mechanisms.Professor Faydor Litvin was recognized as an authority in kinematics and the theory of gearing. A whole epoch in the theory of gearing is concerned with the name of Professor Litvin. He is the author of one of the most fundamental and cited works in the field — a well-known monograph, The Theory of Gearing, which underwent six editions.Born in Russia, Professor Litvin graduated from Leningrad Polytechnic Institute…











April 9, 2018
MIE Professor Kenneth Brezinsky has been elected a Fellow of the inaugural class of Fellows by The Combustion Institute (CI). The Combustion Institute is a non-profit, educational and scientific society founded in 1954. It promotes and disseminates research activities in all areas of combustion science and technology for the advancement of many diverse communities around the world.Fellows are “members of the international combustion community recognized by their peers as distinguished for outstanding contributions to combustion, whether it be in research or in applications. Fellows are active participants in The Combustion Institute, as evidenced by the publishing of papers in CI affiliated journals, attendance at the International Symposia on Combustion, and/or attendance at CI Section meetings.” The first Fellows Selection Committee…











April 6, 2018
Registration is open for UIC’s Robotics Summer Camp. Hosted by the College of Engineering, the summer camp is set for June 25 to July 6, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the college’s Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St, Chicago IL 60607. It is open to qualified middle and high school students with an interest in robotics technology. The summer camp is an opportunity for students to learn in a research laboratory environment and get hands-on experience with state-of-art robotics technology. During the two-week session, students will build a self-driving four-wheeled Mecanum car kit, which has four independently driven wheels via DC motors and gear reducers. They will install sensors needed for a self-driving car, ultrasonic range/obstacle sensor, line…











April 2, 2018
What was thought to be impossible, was just proven to be possible!Researchers in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) used an atomic resolution transmission electron microscope available at UIC to prove that up to eight metallic elements can be perfectly mixed into a single phase or structure  in nanoparticle morphology with dimensions below hundred nanometer.. These nanoparticles produced by thermal shock at the University of Maryland defy the previous thoughts that immiscible multielement atoms cannot be perfectly mixed at subnanoscale. Their results are published in the paper "Carbo-Thermal Shock Synthesis of High Entropy Alloy Nanoparticles" in the journal Science.The general area of research is related to a new class of materials that…











March 23, 2018
Graduates from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) are bringing more to the workforce than a degree. Many are bringing a wealth of research knowledge and leadership experience, too.Barak Stoltz is one example of the leaders earning degrees from MIE. He’s an active member of UIC’s chapters of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and Engineering World Health (EWH). Additionally, he won the Maurice Prize as well as the Illinois Space Grant Scholarship. He had the opportunity to conduct research under the direction of MIE Professor Alexander Yarin for more than two years, and landed an internship with SpaceX. In June, he will start working for the Elon Musk-founded SpaceX in Hawthorne, California.  Before he graduates…











March 21, 2018
Researchers at the University of Illinois at Chicago and at Argonne National Laboratory have designed a new lithium-air battery that works in a natural air environment and still functioned after a record-breaking 750 charge/discharge cycles. Their findings are reported in the journal Nature.“Our lithium-air battery design represents a revolution in the battery community,” said Amin Salehi-Khojin, assistant professor of mechanical and industrial engineering and co-corresponding author of the paper. “This first demonstration of a true lithium-air battery is an important step toward what we call ‘beyond lithium-ion’ batteries, but we have more work to do in order to commercialize it.”Lithium-air batteries — believed to be able to hold up to five times more energy than the lithium-ion batteries that power our phones,…











March 16, 2018
Lithium-metal batteries — which can hold up to 10 times more charge than the lithium-ion batteries that currently power our phones, laptops and cars — haven’t been commercialized because of a fatal flaw: as these batteries charge and discharge, lithium is deposited unevenly on the electrodes. This buildup cuts the lives of these batteries too short to make them viable, and more importantly, can cause the batteries to short-circuit and catch fire.Now, researchers at the University of Illinois at Chicago have developed a solution to this problem in the form of a graphene-oxide coated separator that, when placed in between the two electrodes of a lithium-metal battery, prevents uneven plating of lithium and allows the battery to safely function for…











February 27, 2018
Registration is open for UIC’s annual MIE Engineering Summer Camp, which provides a unique opportunity for Chicago-area high school and middle school students to explore what they can achieve in life through engineering.Hosted by the University of Illinois at Chicago, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) department at 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, the camp provides the participating students a variety of hands-on learning experiences through design projects that are intended to improve the environment and quality of life. The camp will span many engineering disciplines such as mechanical, aerospace, civil, computer, electrical, and industrial.   “We are providing this opportunity for kids who are inquisitive and curious about the world around them, want to try new things, meet new people, and…











February 26, 2018
Watching the fire and smoke, and hearing the roar of a rocket launch into the sky is a thrilling experience. It’s a vision that UIC’s AIAA (American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics) team encounters often when they test rockets and compete at competitions.Apart from launching rockets, the team members put a lot of time and effort into the design and fabrication of their rockets. A key element is the rocket igniter. Since the igniter is encased inside the rocket, it goes unseen when it functions or, in some instances, malfunctions.Recently, UIC’s AIAA team members recently started working with director Matt Mikka, who creates documentaries for various networks.While doing some test filming for another project, he was amazed with the custom…











January 3, 2018
Professor Banerjee Researching, Equipping Students with Virtual Reality Simulators for SurgeryIn August, doctors successfully separated twins conjoined at the head - a condition known as craniopagus - during a 22-hour procedure at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in India. Since 1952, approximately 50 attempts have been made to separate such twins across the world, with the success rate less than 25 percent.According to doctors, craniopagus occurs in one in three million births, and 50 percent of those affected die within 24 hours. For this rare surgery, the doctors had an opportunity to prepare for the operation unlike anyone before them. Prior to the surgery, they practiced the procedure in a 3D operating room using the ImmersiveTouch Mission…






2017









December 1, 2017
Each year, UIC honors some of its most dedicated and outstanding teachers with the Award for Excellence in Teaching. The winners, who receive a $5,000 salary increase, are selected by past recipients of the award from nominations made by departments and colleges. This year, MIE Professor Houshang Darabi was one of five faculty members throughout the university to be awarded. Many students are undecided as to what career path to take following graduation. But Houshang Darabi knew exactly the road he wanted to travel.“Sitting in class as an undergraduate student, I always wanted to switch places with my instructor,” Darabi said. “I would ask myself, ‘If I was teaching what would I do?’ Now that I’m doing it, I really…











November 27, 2017
Registration is open for UIC’s annual Lunch with an Industrial Designer Engineering open house. Hosted by the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at the University of Illinois at Chicago, the event is a set for Saturday, Dec. 2, 2017 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the in the Engineering Research Facility (ERF), 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago.The free event is for area high school students and their parents/guardians to learn about our department's Industrial Engineering degree program, and the wide-range of careers open to graduates. The lunch will include an interactive information session, lab tours, and hands-on engineering challenges to learn how industrial engineers work in the real world. At the end of this exciting program, we…











November 8, 2017
Emulsions or oil-water mixtures are of common occurrence in our daily lives. “In- fact, our life begins with emulsions. When a baby is born the very first thing it drinks is milk, which is an emulsion,” said MIE Assistant Professor Sushant Anand. “So, we have long relationships with emulsions.” Emulsions are used in more items than we may realize, and there are a lot of different applications for emulsions. They are used in drug delivery, material synthesis, cosmetics, oil recovery, food products, and many multi-billion dollar industries.  Uniform microemulsions from the research of UIC Professor Sushant Anand, of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering.One of the most common examples of emulsions is oil and water. And…











November 7, 2017
UIC Motorsports kicked off the racing season with a second-place win during the Backwoods Baja competition hosted by University of Wisconsin – Stout on Oct. 21.The team competed against 20 colleges made up of approximately 200 students during the event, which is consisted of three events. There are two endurance races where the cars compete to get the most laps, and not break in the given time frame, and a third race called the fastest lap. During the third race, the teams drive a single lap backwards on the track to find who has the fastest car and the most skilled driver.The sprint to the finish wasn’t easy for UIC, as they had to overcome some challenges before they got…











October 16, 2017
Astronauts are not alone when they execute amazing experiments in space. There are many people involved, and MIE Professor Jie Xu is one of the expert researchers working with NASA to make space exploration easier.Xu recently received the prestigious NASA Early Career Faculty grant for his project PIPES: Piezoelectric Instrument for Precision Exploration Sampling. He is one of only eight people to receive the award, which has a total amount of $600,000 for three years.“PIPES is a miniaturized liquid sample acquisition and handling system, which looks like a straw and is powered by a hand-held box,” he said. “The “straw” contains multiple flow paths for parallel sampling. Enabled by 3D printing, PIPES integrates acoustic actuation to achieve multiple sampling functions,…











September 28, 2017
The University of Illinois at Chicago has received a $1.44 million National Science Foundation grant to discover new 2D materials that can be used to manufacture better and cheaper batteries.Two-dimensional materials, of which graphene is the most common, are extremely strong, lightweight, flexible, and excellent conductors of heat and electricity. Graphene is one million times thinner than paper, nearly transparent and believed to be the strongest material in the world.Since the discovery of graphene in 2004, about 700 2D materials are predicted to be stable; many remain to be synthesized. The global market for 2D materials is expected to reach $390 million within a decade.Amin Salehi-Khojin, assistant professor of mechanical and industrial engineering, and Robert Klie, professor of physics, want…











September 27, 2017
The University of Illinois at Chicago College of Engineering has received a grant to provide scholarships, mentoring and internship opportunities to academically-talented, low-income engineering undergraduates. The goal of the scholarship program is to have students graduate into STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) advanced degree programs or secure jobs in STEM fields within six months of leaving UIC.The $975,000 National Science Foundation grant will support a total of 30 incoming freshmen engineering students who start in either fall 2018 or fall 2019. Students from low-income households will be encouraged to apply for the scholarship program based on their high school grades and ACT or SAT scores.“There’s nothing more important to the College of Engineering than student success, and engineering and computer…











September 14, 2017
Enrollment shot up for the recent Engineering Summer Camp hosted by UIC’s Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE), 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago. Throughout the summer, MIE hosted 160 high school and middle school students, which is sharp increase compared to last year, which was attended by 120 students. The demand was so high, the department coordinators added a fourth week to accommodate the ambitious youths. The annual camp is designed to introduce students to the various and multi-faceted engineering disciplines, and provide a variety of hands-on learning experiences where they can immerse in projects that are intended to improve the environment and quality of life. The themes include 3D printing and rapid prototyping, coding, robotics, renewable energy, product design,…











September 13, 2017
Today’s rechargeable lithium-ion batteries are good, but they could be much better in the future.That’s what University of Illinois at Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory researchers have concluded, following extensive studies using real-time transmission electron microscopy, or TEM. The technique, they report in Nature Communications, is the most effective way to understand the electrochemical reactions of lithium-ion batteries and to learn how the batteries can be modified to become safer, stronger, longer lasting and cheaper.“Despite widespread use, rechargeable ion batteries face various materials and interfacial challenges that exclude them from high power and high-performance applications,” says Reza Shahbazian-Yassar, associate professor of mechanical and industrial engineering and one of the co-authors on the paper that includes Khalil Amine and Jun Lu of Argonne.Lithium-ion batteries are…











August 31, 2017
The AIAA at UIC Rocketry Team outshined 24 teams to win first place during the Target Altitude challenge at the annual Battle of the Rockets (BOR) 2017 competition hosted by the Federation of Galaxy Explorers in Westover, Maryland. UIC successfully designed and built a rocket to fly on any commercial certified G-level rocket motor to an altitude of 1,213 feet. UIC came closest to the 1,213 mark for the win. They also safely recovered their rocket to fly again, which is one of the requirements of the competition. “Winning BOR Target Altitude was fantastic for us,” said team captain Matt Valenzeno, a student in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE). “We feel like we've made huge strides. That…











July 28, 2017
MIE students put a tremendous amount of hard work into their Senior Design Expo projects with a goal to win first place. Win or lose, all of the students learn from their projects and take that knowledge to the working world or graduate school. For some students, the payoff is greater. Three of MIE’s projects, advised by Jon Komperda and Dr. Michael Brown,  are being put into action by two companies that sponsored the students.“As a research university, we challenge our students so they are prepared for the next level of their career,” said MIE Department Head Farzad Mashayek. “In this instance, we are connecting students and companies for real-world work that can implemented. The partnerships benefit everyone involved in multiple…











July 26, 2017
Students Nab Third Place at Intelligent Ground Vehicle Competition, Second Place at NASA Competition UIC’s Engineering Design Team (EDT) are winners. The team’s hard work and skills paid off as they recently captured third and second place positions at two competitions. In early June, the team earned third place in the Design Competition with its R.E.V.O. robot during the 25th Annual Intelligent Ground Vehicle Competition (IGVC) at Oakland University in Rochester, Michigan.For the Design Competition, the team submitted a written report, gave an oral presentation, and performed a vehicle demonstration to the IGVC design judge panel. UIC competed against more than 30 colleges from around the world during the competition and missed second place by two points.The competition challenges students…











June 19, 2017
Registration is open for UIC’s Robotics Summer Camp. Hosted by the College of Engineering, the summer camp is set for July 17-28 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the college’s Engineering Research Facility, 842 W. Taylor St, Chicago IL 60607. It is open to qualified middle and high school students with an interest in robotics technology.The summer camp is an opportunity for students to learn in a research laboratory environment and get hands-on experience with state-of-art robotics technology.During the two-week camp, students will be building a self-driving four-wheeled Mecanum car kit, which has four independently driven wheels via DC motors and gear reducers.Students will install various sensors needed for a self-driving car, ultrasonic range/obstacle sensor, line tracking sensor (like…











May 30, 2017
MIE students won first place and third place overall at the 28th Annual UIC Engineering Senior Design Expo on April 21, 2017 at the UIC Forum, 725 W. Roosevelt Road, Chicago. MIE teams also picked up 10 of 24 Globe Awards and 11 of 24 Honorable mentions during the event, which was made up of 130 projects presented by more than 500 students throughout the College of Engineering. The team of Josh Farrell, Ivan Smuk, Aymen Hussein, and Hisham Nakira were the big winners as they took home the first-place Gold Award, which had a prize of $3,000, and a Globe Award for their project Bulk Material Servo Feeder with Material Flare Reduction Mechanism for Industrial Manufacturing. The team were…











April 26, 2017
Emeritus Professor Suresh Aggarwal, of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC, has been selected to receive the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) Energy Systems Award for 2017. “I know that the past recipients were all distinguished researchers in the field of energy,” said Farzad Mashayek, MIE Department Head and Professor. “It’s a great honor to be in such company.” Dr. Tom l-P Shih, of Purdue University, nominated Aggarwal for the award “for outstanding contributions to energy and combustion systems through pioneering work on advanced spray and flame model development for improved engine performance and pollution reduction.” Aggarwal is the first UIC professor to win the award, and he will be formally recognized on Wednesday, July 12,…











April 19, 2017
As the faculty in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) continues to grow at UIC, so do the accolades for their dedication to research. Recently, Assistant Professor Yayue Pan was named a 2017 Outstanding Young Manufacturing Engineer Award from the Society of Manufacturing Engineers (SME).Pan was recognized for her “exceptional contributions and accomplishments in the manufacturing industry.” She is one of only 17 people – all age 35 or younger – to receive the award, who were selected based on their work in emerging manufacturing applications, technical publications, patents, and academic or industry leadership. The young professor was nominated by two senior professors outside of UIC who are familiar with her research.“This is my first external award in…











April 17, 2017
MIE Department Head Farzad Mashayek is the principal investigator of two new National Science Foundation grants totaling $1.1 million, which is going toward constructing the foundation of a computing system for big-data mining and high-performance computing.The new equipment is called SABER, which is an acronym for “Shared Analytics and Big-data Enterprise Resource.” It will build upon a legacy of high-performance computing clusters at UIC, which bring together a community of researchers to share resources and know-how. SABER will be shared across all disciplines at UIC, which includes researchers and centers in nine colleges throughout the university. Mashayek uses HPC to study supersonic combustion in the Computational Multiphase Transport Laboratory.The full story from UIC News can be found at East Meets West:…











March 22, 2017
UIC’s Industrial Engineering students are getting a jump start on their careers.The student chapter of the Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE) brought together more than 150 participants from 11 regional universities to socialize, network, exchange ideas and compete as it hosted the “2017 IISE North Central Regional Conference” from Feb. 23 to 25.The annual conference featured speakers from the sponsoring companies and professors from UIC’s Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. Industry speakers included Jim D'Angelo, chief operating officer of Lou Malnati's, and Brad Mueller, chief operating officer of Healthsmart International.“This event is important so different students from different universities get to know each other and what others are doing,” said Adriana Garcia, an Industrial Engineering student and…











March 7, 2017
The research in UIC Distinguished Professor Alexander Yarin’s Multiscale Mechanics and Nanotechnology Laboratory is flooding the science community. A paper by Yarin and his team members’ about using bubble recoil to cool microelectronics was recently published in the journal Nature Microgravity. The work, titled “Swing-like Pool Boiling on Nano-Textured Surfaces for Microgravity Applications Related to Cooling of High-Power Microelectronics,” originated from the team’s work on a NASA-funded project. Stories about the team’s research have been published in Phys.org, Engineering.com, AZoNano.com, New electronics.co.uk, and UIC News.The original story from UIC News can be found at Bubble Recoil Could be Used to Cool Microchips, Even in Space.











March 3, 2017
Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department Hosting Three SessionsRegistration is open for UIC’s annual MIE Engineering Summer Camp hosted by the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at the University of Illinois at Chicago, 842 W. Taylor St.The summer camp is an opportunity for Chicago-area high school and middle school students to explore what they can achieve in life through engineering. The camp is designed to introduce students to the research laboratory environment and provide a variety of hands-on learning experiences where they can design projects that are intended to improve the environment and quality of life. The activities include 3D printing and rapid prototyping, coding, robotics, renewable energy, product design, aerodynamics, structures and safety, and efficiency and productivity.Additionally, students…











February 22, 2017
When people think about renewable energy the first things that come to mind are usually windmills, solar panels, and hydropower. But there is a major component in this process that needs to be addressed, and a new professor in UIC’s Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering’s is addressing this issue.Professor Arunkumar Subramanian, director of the Laboratory for Integrated Nanosystems (LINS) is investigating ways to make rechargeable batteries more sustainable. He is researching rechargeable batteries that use sodium ions instead of lithium ions for storing charge. The goal of this project is to improve the mechanical stability and electrochemical energy storage capacity of sodium-ion batteries by tuning the pore geometry and ionic content of microporous, sodium-ion intercalation electrodes. The research will…











January 27, 2017
Professor Jeremiah Abiade is taking teaching out of the classroom and into the neighborhood. The Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) professor is part of a team of UIC educators who are planning to start a community center in a low-income neighborhood where they will interact with residents who are not traditionally involved in Science, Technology, Engineering, Math (STEM), and work together on problems in their neighborhood.“If they have soil contamination or water problems, we can try to help them from a technical perspective to approach those problems that directly impact them, while at the same time, letting them see the benefit of having a STEM education,” said Abiade. “We are giving them a STEM education without telling them.…











January 25, 2017
Instead of applying copious amounts of deicing fluids to remove ice buildup from an aircraft before winter takeoffs, airport ground crews may see a lot less ice to clear away.Professor Jeremiah Abiade and his team in the Laboratory for Oxide Research and Education (LORE), developed a composite that has the potential to prevent ice from building up on aircrafts. Under Abiade’s direction, student Sin-Pui Fu developed a ceramic polymer composite that is based on cerium dioxide with polyurethane.“Instead of using a whole lot of chemicals during the winter at O’Hare or Midway [airports] to get rid of the ice on the planes, our idea is to put a coating on the structure before it goes into use,” said Abiade, of…











January 18, 2017
Three students from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) have been awarded Chicago Consular Corps Scholarship for the academic year 2016-2017 from UIC’s Office of International Affairs (OIA).Mechanical engineering students Ramasubramonian Deivanayagam, Poya Yasaei, and industrial engineering student Jose Yanes Vargas were honored at OIA’s award ceremony on Nov. 17 at UIC. The ceremony marked the Chicago Consular Corps Scholarship’s 10th anniversary at UIC.The students are three of only 15 successful applicants university-wide who were “favorably reviewed” and awarded the $1,000 scholarship. They also are among the thirteen UIC international degree seeking students who were awarded the scholarships. Two scholarships were awarded to full-time, degree seeking American students. Eligibility for the scholarship is limited to students who have a…






2016









December 21, 2016
Center to Conduct Engineering Research and Provide Free Energy-Efficiency Assessments to ManufacturersThe College of Engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago is establishing at new Industrial Assessment Center (IAC).Led by Professor Lin Li, of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE), a team of researchers from three College of Engineering departments and the Energy Resources Center (ERC) were awarded a new five-year grant for $2,087,872 – with $1,575,000 coming directly from the U.S. Department of Energy – to set up the center.The new center is one of only 28 located at higher education institutions from 25 states across the country. Teams from the center will conduct advanced research on energy efficiency and smart manufacturing. Simultaneously, they will provide…











December 20, 2016
It takes more than a driver to win a race. It takes a team! And the UIC Motorsports Formula team recently received a powerful boost from one of its new corporate sponsors.            Several engineering students had the opportunity to visit Gaspardo & Associates, Inc., in Batavia, Ill., where they had a chance to use company’s 3D measurement devices to make computer models of the engine for its formula race car.“We went to Gaspardo and Associates to scan our engine using their product, ComScan,” said Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) student Simona Narubin, of Wheaton. “With the engine scan, we will be able to use in our vehicle model in SolidWorks, this will give us more precise measurements within the model…











October 28, 2016
“If it isn’t broke, don’t fix it,” is a common phrase, but you won’t hear engineers saying it. Engineers are known as problem solvers, and often they make things better by researching and understanding how materials work. Professor Hamed Hatami-Marbini, of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, is researching the mechanical properties of the cornea to find new solutions for diseases that plague it.The cornea is a unique transparent tissue whose mechanical properties play a vital role in maintaining its stability and optical function. The loss of corneal structural integrity due to diseases such as keratoconus and ectasia leads to significant bulging and may cause severe visual impairment including blindness. In the case of keratoconus, which impacts approximately 1 in…











September 15, 2016
Professor Anand Awarded Two Grants to Develop Environmentally-Friendly Solutions for Severe Climate ProblemsBy David Staudacher, UICWinter is coming! City landscapes will soon transform into winter wonderlands blanketed with snow and shimmering icicles dangling from homes and buildings. “Ice is one of the most beautiful structures in nature,” said Professor Sushant Anand, of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC. “It’s one of the most symmetric crystals found in nature. We’ve all seen snowflakes and there have been countless number of poems written about snowflakes and how each snowflake is unique. But its beauty aside, ice can cause a lot of problems in many different circumstances.”Ice buildup on the roadways can have a serious impact, including car accidents, traffic congestion,…











August 19, 2016
Summers on college campuses are slower than the fall and spring semesters. But for three weeks in July, 125 high school and middle school students took over UIC’s Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE), 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago, for the second annual “UIC Engineering Summer Camp.”MIE professors Yeow Siow and Jamison Szwalek organized the camp, which brought together qualified students from Chicago and the surrounding suburbs for a week of lively projects and camaraderie. The program was broken down into three one-week sessions and grouped the students together into different age groups. Session one was for incoming high school juniors and seniors, session two was geared toward incoming high school freshmen and sophomores, and session three was attended…











July 17, 2016
What is your phone number?While answering this question, you probably used a method called chunking. You placed the numbers together into different sections – starting with area code, then the next three numbers, and finished with the last four digits. The organization of seemingly random numbers into chunks with slight pauses makes it easier to remember. Phone numbers are typically not seen or remembered as 3124138717. Instead, it is placed into chunks and seen as 312-413-8717.Chunking applies to movement, too. Elemental actions are merged into “chunks” and complex movements are made by combining many chunks together.Dr. Max Berniker, an assistant professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC), is part…











July 7, 2016












June 1, 2016












May 31, 2016
“If the students can feel the teachers are really enthusiastic and devoted themselves in teaching, they will be willing to engage in teaching activities in the classroom,” said Professor Lin Li, of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at UIC. Li clearly knows what he is talking about. Before the spring 2016 semester ended the professor received two teaching awards and was promoted to associate professor. He kicked off the year by receiving the 2015-2016 Teaching Recognition Program Award, which is the UIC’s only campus-wide faculty-administered teaching award. He was one of only 14 people throughout the university selected by his peers to receive the award. The dedicated group of colleagues determined his “teaching is an excellent example…











May 28, 2016
Collaborating on research is important for research engineers. And Distinguished Professor Alexander Yarin knows it. That’s why he and his team from UIC’s Multiscale Mechanics and Nanotechnology Laboratory (MMNL) in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) hosted Dr. Sam Yoon’s group from Korea University’s Solar Cell and Aerosol science Lab for the second UIC-KU International Conference in April at UIC’s Engineering Research Facility. After a warm welcome from MIE Department Head Farzad Mashayek, professors Yarin and Yoon led the conference, which was comprised of lectures and discussions that included research findings from the Postdoc and Ph.D. students from both universities. “Many topics using nanofibers were discussed,” said Dr. Minwook Lee, who is working for the joint project at…











May 23, 2016
UIC’s American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) student chapter swooped in to capture second place on April 23rd during the annual Mountaineer Collegiate UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) Fly-Off Competition sponsored by the AIAA, Cessna Aircraft, and Raytheon Missile Systems at Louis Bennett Field in Jane Lew, West Virginia. Each year, teams from all across the world design, assemble, and fly a remote controlled aircraft to meet the design requirements for a given year's competition.The UIC’s DBF (Design/Build/Fly) Team built and flew two radio-controlled airplanes as they competed in three technical flight missions throughout the day. The missions included Gatorade transportation, timed flight and aircraft transportation, and delivery and assembly.“We were scored based on flight performance,” said Jameel Darwish, a sophomore…











May 22, 2016
Industry Partnership Providing Students with Real-World Experience Researching Better Consumer ProductsWhat is the secret to developing a great product? Engineering! Mechanical and industrial engineers are continuously researching how to make items better, and that includes everyday consumer products. One outlet for companies to develop better products is by partnering with universities.At UIC’s Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE), Professor Constantine Megaridis has developed a strong relationship with Kimberly-Clark, which produces products such as facial tissue, paper towels, toilet paper, baby diapers, feminine pads and disposable training pants. The company is a world leader in providing essentials for a better life, and its global brands can be found in more than 175 countries.Recently, Kimberly-Clark awarded Megaridis a grant for the…











April 25, 2016
Student teams from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) displayed a wide variety of creativity, ingenuity, teamwork and intelligence during the 27th Annual Engineering EXPO on Friday, April 22, at the UIC Forum. The EXPO featured 119 senior design projects in 21 categories that solved real-world challenges with topics representing majors from all six departments in the College of Engineering. Seven of the first-place awards went to MIE teams, who impressed the guest judges from all areas of the engineering industry. All of the first-place teams were awarded $1,000. In the Design and Research Studies category, the team of Renan Braulino, Michael Bravo, Ana Escoto, and Matthew Pruett won for their project “Conveyer Design for Graphic Packaging.” The…











April 24, 2016












March 25, 2016
"The secret of joy in work is contained in one word – excellence. To know how to do something well is to enjoy it.” - Pearl S. Buck, American writer and novelist Professor W.J. Minkowycz is the epitome of excellence. He doesn’t just enjoy his work; he loves it. And on March 16, the highly-awarded and immensely-respected professor celebrated his 50th year of service in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at UIC. Minkowycz, a resident of Park Ridge, Ill., started working at UIC on March 16, 1966, and during this time he has made significant contributions to the national and international professional community and to the University of Illinois at Chicago, encompassing research of the highest quality,…











February 25, 2016
The freezing temperatures of Michigan’s Upper Peninsula couldn’t stop the red hot UIC Baja team from capturing the checkered flag at the annual Winter Baja 2016 hosted by Michigan Tech University on Saturday, Feb. 13. Along with the first place trophy, the UIC team burned up the track with the fastest lap time of the day — 3 minutes and 10 seconds — and dethroned the Iowa team that won the race the previous three years. “The entire field of teams were excited for the dynasty to be unseated. We hope this brings a renewed sense of fun to the competition,” said Justin Czok, president of UIC Motorsports, the College of Engineering’s student chapter of the Society of Automotive Engineers.…











February 24, 2016
New Grant is One of Three as the Sole Principal Investigator in Less Than a Year Professor Kenneth Brezinsky is on a roll! The prolific researcher recently began work on a grant that is one of three received in less than a year for a total of nearly $1.3 million in research funding. The professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) is the sole principal investigator (PI) for all three awards. Each grant is for a different research project, but they all have a common thread - fuels for either aircraft engine or ground transportation. Brezinsky, who is the Associate Dean for Research & Graduate Studies in the UIC College of Engineering, was awarded a $551,631 grant…











February 23, 2016












January 25, 2016












January 24, 2016
Graduate student Poya Yasaei recently received a Silver Graduate Student Award at the Materials Research Society (MRS) 2015 Fall Meeting in Boston. He was one of only 29 students in the world to be awarded Gold and Silver Awards and recognized for exceptional ability and promising future in materials research based on oral presentations given on Dec. 1, 2015. Silver Award winners receive a $200 prize and a certificate.Yasaei, who is working on his Ph.D. under the direction of Assistant Professor Amin Salehi-Khojin in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE), was honored for his work on "Thermal Transport Across Individual Graphene Grain Boundaries."During the meeting, he had the opportunity to participate in the Special Talk Session and deliver…











January 23, 2016
The UIC Graduate Awards Committee has selected Mechanical and Industrial Engineering student Joseph Mates’ thesis, “Tunable Multifunctional Nanomaterial & Polymer Composites: Nonwoven Applications,” as the Outstanding Thesis for 2015-2016 in the division of Engineering, Mathematics, and Physical Sciences. Mates will be awarded $750 and a plaque during the Graduate College’s Student Awards Ceremony at 2 p.m. on Tuesday, April 19, 2016 in the Student Services Building. He is one of only four students college-wide to be selected and beat out seven students in his division for the highly-competitive award. Mates worked on his Ph.D. under the direction of Professor Constantine Megaridis in the Micro/Nanoscale Fluid Transport Laboratory at UIC. He was part of a team funded by federal and industrial…






2015









December 23, 2015
Behind every good toy company is a team of engineers that brings innovative design and quality assurance to products loved by children around the world. For Radio Flyer Incorporated—maker of the original little red wagon, tricycle, and scooter—Christian Gonzalez (BS ’16), a mechanical engineering student at UIC’s College of Engineering, is one of those engineers. Radio Flyer’s products were a big part of Gonzalez’s childhood, so when he got the chance to intern at the company, he couldn’t pass it up. “Plus, when I tell people about it, everyone recognizes the brand. It’s pretty cool,” he says. During his internship at Radio Flyer’s headquarters on Chicago’s northwest side, Gonzalez redesigned the fixture used by the company to assemble its most…











December 22, 2015
Look at Chicago’s skyline and you will see giant towers of glass soaring hundreds of stories high. Imagine if all that glass could regulate the energy consumption in those buildings. From smart windows in skyscrapers to tiny molecular-scale devices that can be switched on and off at speeds of millions of a second, smart materials have high potential to revolutionize the way we live. It may sound too good to be true, but Associate Professor Reza Shahbazian-Yassar, in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago, is leading a team that are researching the use of nanotechnology in metal-insulator transition materials that can impact the energy efficiency of buildings, development of ultrafast electronic switches,…











December 21, 2015
Engineers solve problems. And the six departments that make up UIC’s College of Engineering developed a solution to put freshmen on the path to early success. It’s called the Freshman Engineering Success Program (FESP) , and it is designed to motivate and support students with their studies. It also rewards them with a guaranteed paid internship at the end of the year. The program, now in its third year, consists of a series of sessions and group projects encouraging students to learn more about their discipline and how to build an engineering sense by using their existing math and science skills. Throughout the year, the students participate in at least two general sessions, two team-based mini-projects, and are introduced to…











November 25, 2015
Students Poya Yasaei, Soumyadip Sett, and Panagiotis Bakos have been chosen to receive the Chicago Consular Corps Scholarship for the academic year 2015-2016 from the UIC Office of International Affairs (OIA). The three students will be awarded at OIA’s award ceremony on Nov. 18 at UIC. The ceremony coincides with the International Education Week celebration.The students in the department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering students are three of only 15 successful applicants college-wide who received the award of $1,000, and have a minimum cumulative UIC GPA of 3.5 (on a 4-point scale). Nine scholarships were awarded to foreign students studying at UIC, and one scholarship was awarded to a U.S. national studying at UIC.Poya Yasaei is working on his Ph.D.…











November 24, 2015
Congratulations to Professor Reza Shahbazian-Yassar on being named a recipient of the “2016 TMS SMD Young Leaders Professional Development Award from The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society (TMS). He will be honored during a formal presentation on Feb. 15, 2016, during the 145th TMS Annual Meeting in Nashville.At the meeting, he will be among Structural Materials Division (SMD) award winners from Oak Ridge National Laboratory, National Chiao Tung University, Seoul National University, Oregon State University, and Lehigh University. Shahbazian-Yassar joined UIC’s Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering in September as an associate professor, and his research interests include in situ transmission electron microscopy, energy storage and conversion, and nanomaterials for electronics and biomaterials. Before coming to UIC, he was an…











November 23, 2015
Mechanical and Industrial Engineering student Poya Yasaei is a winner. He has been selected as a finalist for the Graduate Student Award for the 2015 The Materials Research Society (MRS) Fall Meeting on Dec. 1 in Boston. He is one of only 29 students in the world to be selected for the award. Yasaei is working on his Ph.D. under the direction of Assistant Professor Amin Salehi-Khojin in the Nanomaterial and Energy System Laboratory in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC. He is part of an interdisciplinary research group with the mission to advance the state of the knowledge at the boundary of science and engineering. The team pursues fundamental research in the field of advanced materials…











October 25, 2015
Dr. Alexander L. Yarin wants to make big changes in the world, and he’s researching nanotechnology to do it. Yarin, a University of Illinois at Chicago distinguished professor, is the director of The Multiscale Mechanics and Nanotechnology Laboratory at the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. In the lab, he supervises approximately a dozen postdoctoral researchers and graduate students who are each concentrating on unique research focused on fundamental and practical aspects of fluid and solid mechanics, especially at length scales ranging from a few millimeters down to the nanometer level. How small is a nanometer? “Nano” means one-billionth, therefore one nanometer is one-billionth of a meter. It’s quite difficult to visualize how small that is, so think about these…











September 25, 2015
Professor Michael J. Scott was recently awarded nearly $200,000 from the National Science Foundation for a project entitled “Development of a Concept Inventory for Functional Reasoning.” He is heavily involved in the development and implementation of new curriculum, in particular for design related topics, in engineering at UIC. “The objective is to better the teaching and learning of the concept of function in mechanical engineering,” said Professor Scott. “The central learning goal is for students to be able to decompose a simple mechanical system and correctly analyze it in terms of the functions performed by its subsystems, components, and features.” The project takes functional reasoning as a starting point to tackle the issue of how to best prepare and retain…











August 25, 2015
Professor Laxman Saggere was recently awarded nearly $400,000 from the National Science Foundation’s Office of Emerging Frontiers of Research and Innovation (EFRI) for a project entitled “EFRI-BSBA: Nanoactuation and Sensing of Neural Function for Engineering Future Biomimetic Retinal Implants and Therapies.” The funding is a supplement to his original 2009 EFRI grant and brings the total to approximately $2.4 million. “The research explores the feasibility of developing a novel retinal prosthesis for people who are blind due to photoreceptor degeneration,” said Professor Saggere. “Our goal is to develop a prosthesis that works by mimicking the functionality of normal photoreceptors lost due to retinal degenerative diseases that ultimately lead to blindness. In this biomimetic approach, we are stimulating the retinal neurons…











August 24, 2015












August 23, 2015












August 22, 2015
Building a wind turbine out of blank CDs, thin cardboard, and Super Glue might not sound like the average summer activity for a ten year old, but professors at UIC’s College of Engineering hope to make it one.As part of a new summer camp hosted by the College’s mechanical and industrial engineering department, forty-three students ages ten to eighteen—split into two age-based tracks—spent a week on campus exploring the engineering world through hands-on activities, field trips, and tours of high-tech labs and design shops on UIC’s campus.More than half the campers had never heard of engineering. But that’s the point, said Yeow Siow, PhD, the camp’s director. “There was no eligibility requirement. We wanted to reach as many kids as…











July 25, 2015












June 25, 2015
Future energy sustainability and greenhouse gas mitigation would both benefit from man-made processes—especially one that does both at the same time. Following Professor Amin Salehi-Khojin's research at the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, the National Science Foundation awarded Salehi-Khojin with a grant for $329,793 to build on his previous breakthrough, bringing the entire process closer to commercial viability.Prior to his two-step catalysis process, electrocatalysis relied on expensive metals like gold or silver in the reduction reaction. Not only were these metals expensive, they were also limited in their results. With this new grant, Salehi-Khojin intends to advance knowledge in the design of earth-abundant electrocatalysts by building on his previous discovery of how transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) reduce carbon dioxide.To…











June 24, 2015
Professor Christian Luciano was honored as a recipient of the 2015 Chancellor's Discovery Fund for his proposal, "Augmented Reality Proctor for Simulation and Training of Central Line Placement."











June 23, 2015
Professor Amin Salehi-Khojin's research on, "An Advanced Lithium-Air Battery Cell," was awarded the Spring 2015 Proof-of-Concept (POC) Award by the UIC Chancellor's Innovation Fund. This award marks the second time Professor Salehi-Khojin's work has been recognized by the CIF.











May 25, 2015












May 24, 2015
Professor Ken Brezinsky was recently awarded a $300,000 grant from the National Science Foundation to continue his research on the "High Pressure Ring Contraction of Cyclic Hydrocarbons." This project studies the behavior of some basic fuels under high-pressure and high-temperature conditions (typical in engines and power plane combustors), such as how fast/slow the fuel molecules will be fragmenting or contracting. The results have the relevance on how soot particulates might form under these conditions, and thus help to develop cleaner combustion technology. Graduate students from under-represented groups will be involved in the research activities. The objective of the proposal is to measure the pressure-dependence of cyclization vs. beta scission branching fraction of midsize alkenyl radicals. Using a shock tube, the…











May 20, 2015
Professor Jeremiah Abiade was recently awarded a $290,000 grant from the National Science Foundation to continue his research on, "Collaborative Research: Size-effect driven nanoparticle ferromagnetism." The research objective of this proposal is to test the hypothesis that reducing the dimensions of certain normally diamagnetic metals to the nanoscale can result in ferromagnetism. Reports of ferromagnetism in noble metal nanoparticles like gold are considered controversial because the findings contradict well-established physics. Laser-processing techniques are being used to synthesize nanoparticle samples of noble metals like gold, silver and palladium of desired sizes in oxide thin films. Deposition of the nanoparticles in nonmagnetic oxide thin films simultaneously provides synthesis, suppressed agglomeration, and in-situ passivation of the nanoparticles by the oxide thin films (magnesia,…











April 25, 2015
When Martin Weith, an undergraduate senior in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, was looking for something to fill his ME 392 class (a technical elective course that is required to graduate), he came across the opportunity to do research in Professor Alexander Yarin’s laboratory over the summer (of 2014). Weith, who is considering a career in research when he graduates, thought this would be an excellent way to find out what the job is like. After speaking with Professor Yarin and his team, Weith passed the interview and actively jumped in to the research project, which focused on creating a breathable, biodegradable “band-aid” to prevent vines (like grape vines) from being attacked by fungi after they have been pruned.By…











March 25, 2015
"The phenomenon of water droplets accumulating on a lotus leaf, then rolling off is due to its non-wettable surface. The leaf has tiny hair nanostructures that reduce contact between its surface and water, offering very little resistance to the movement of droplets. Gravity or a gentle movement of the leaf can propel the droplets." Aritra Ghosh, a Ph.D. student of Professor Constantine Megaridis, spoke to the Times of India about how a curiosity from his childhood lead to his joining Megaridis' team in developing technology that can potentially revolutionize industries from medical diagnostics to power supply. Most importantly, for people living in extremely arid and water-scarce areas, this technology could change their entire way of living. Read more »











February 25, 2015












January 25, 2015
The Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC announced they have entered into an agreement with New Energy Innovations, Inc., to enhance the traffic-powered sustainable source of clean energy at intersections, municipalities, airport entrances, toll booths, as well as entrance and exit ramps, nationwide. Ralph A. Black, creator and inventor of the patented Traffic Powered Renewable Energy System (TPRES™), along with Chief Technical Officer and co-inventor, Asad Ali, have worked closely together on the design and effectiveness of this renewable energy system. The UIC Senior Mechanical Engineering and Design Team will be working on optimizing the best mechanical system.Learn more about the collaboration in the press announcement: Read more »See the prototype video: View here »






2014









November 25, 2014












October 25, 2014
In a recent issue of the Association of Textile, Apparel & Materials Professionals (AATCC) Review, the journal took on the subject of soy in America. Although this crop is among the most popular to grow, the 82.1 million tons produced last year, according to the American Soybean Association, isn’t just being used in consumables, but it’s being spun into many unique kinds of emerging technology. The bulk of the harvested soybeans are extracted for oil, and leave behind a high-protein soy fiber. Although some of this gets used to feed livestock, there is far more fiber and protein than there are animals to eat it, so what can be done with the leftovers? As it turns out, even the leftovers…











September 25, 2014












September 24, 2014












August 25, 2014
MIE undergraduate student Thomas Derrig received the prestigious 2014-2015 Garland Duncan Scholarship of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Foundation. This scholarship, which enables students pursuing an educational program in mechanical engineering or mechanical engineering technology, is awarded to a select number of qualified students based on their leadership, scholastic ability, potential contribution to the mechanical engineering profession and financial need. Derrig, who is a senior pursuing the mechanical engineering track, and was the 2013-2014 ASME President at MIE, placed first for this scholarship, and plans to graduate in Spring 2015. "I am honored to win a scholarship that will help me achieve my goal of becoming a professional engineer who uses creative problem solving skills to generate innovative solutions,"…











August 24, 2014
Professor Ahmed Shabana receives the 2014 ASME Design Engineering Division's Robert E. Abbott Award. This recent award is a Lifetime Service Award that recognizes a Society Member who has served the Design Engineering Division beyond the call of duty. It honors valued services on behalf of the Division, the Society, and the Engineering Profession. Professor Shabana has focused his interests in the areas of computational dynamics, vibration and control of multibody systems that consist of interconnected rigid and deformable bodies. His research also includes the integration of finite element, computational geometry, and multibody system algorithms as well as on the integration of computer aided design and analysis (ICADA)











July 26, 2014












June 25, 2014












May 26, 2014
Congratulations to Jia Luo on winning the 2014 Link Foundation Fellowship for Advanced Simulation and Training. "My research focuses on the design and implementation of a haptics-based cataract surgery simulator," said Luo, pictured with his advisers Drs. Prashant Banerjee (right) and Cristian Luciano. Luo is a 4th-year Ph.D. student in Dr. Banerjee's Industrial Virtual Reality Institute Laboratory. Although there are several cataract simulators currently available, none of them currently incorporate tactile feedback, a feature that could provide more realistic operative experience for ophthalmology/surgical residents. Luo's research aims to produce a haptics-based cataract simulator to provide medical schools with an efficient training tool--that improves their residents’ tactile and psychomotor skills. Utilizing this simulator can also potentially reduce the need for expensive pig…











May 25, 2014
Graphene is a two-dimensional wonder-material that has the potential to change the face of engineering. It is made of a single layer of carbon atoms, is strong, transparent, and conducts electricity excellently. It has potential in a wide range of applications, such as reinforcing and lending electrical properties to plastics; creating denser, faster integrated circuits, and even building better touch screens.Although it seems like a fairytale come true, there is one slight problem that has prevented graphene from world domination—it literally falls apart at large-scale production. “Normally, graphene is produced in small flakes, and even these small flakes have defects,” said Alexander Yarin, researcher and distinguished professor in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. What is worse is when…











April 26, 2014












April 25, 2014
When Hamilton Elementary School 4th and 5th grade decided to have their first paper airplane contest, they reached out to MIE—to see if any engineers could help their students craft the best paper airplanes. Three MIE students and members of the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics club, Kyriakos Anastasopoulos, Collin Brady and Oliver Sanchez, rose to the occasion, heading to Hamilton Elementary on April 22, 2014 to guide Hamilton's students in their preparations. "They [the students] were so excited to learn about how you may use engineering in your careers, and are hooked on making different planes with the suggestions you gave to them," said Kerrie Rovito, 4th-8th Grade Science Teacher at Hamilton. Along with helping the Hamilton Elementary…






2013









July 26, 2013
The Graduate College has released the list of Dean's Scholars for this cycle. We are pleased to report that Professor Constantine Megaridis's student Tom Schutzius was one of the winners of this prestigious award.











January 21, 2013
Professor Stephen U. S. Choi passed away on Friday, January 18, 2013, after battling cancer. He was kind and generous colleague, and a gifted scientist. He will be sorely missed.Dr. Choi joined the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering at UIC in August of 2006 as a Research Professor. Dr. Choi received his Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering from the UC, Berkeley, and was recently named a Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). Prior to coming to UIC, Dr. Choi was at the Energy and Environment Division, at Argonne National Laboratory conducting research, primarily in advanced fluids. He was also Staff Scientist at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and a Nuclear Staff at Bechtel Power Corporation in San Francisco.Dr. Choi’s…











January 1, 2013












January 1, 2013
Congratulations to Prof Matthew Bolton on receiving the following NASA grant through University of Virginia. Matthew joined the MIE Department in August 2012.Title: NEXTGENAA: Integrated Model Checking and Simulation of NextGen Authority and AutonomyNASA Ames Research Center - University of Virginia - $77,931Period: 10/1/12-10/31/13NextGen systems are envisioned to be composed of human and automated agents interacting with dynamic flexibility in the allocation of authority and autonomy. The analysis of such concepts of operation requires methods for verifying and validating that the range of roles and responsibilities potentially assignable to the human and automated agents does not lead to unsafe situations. Agent-based simulation has shown promise toward modeling such complexity but requires a tradeoff between fidelity and the number of simulation…











January 1, 2013
Title: Spinning Oriented Nanofibers that are Below 50 Nanometers Source: Nonwovens Cooperative Research Center at NC State Amount: $150,000 Period: 1/1/13-12/31/15 The project aims at fundamental study and modification of solution blowing process recently introduced by Yarin's group as a means for the rapid formation of polymer nanofibers from polymer solutions.In the present project, the aim is to produce the nanofibers in the range 20-50 nm on demand. This will be achieved by supersonic blowing based on the de Laval (converging-diverging) nozzles Title: Characterization of Rheological Behavior of Gypsum Slurries, Joint Compounds, and other Material Blends Source: United States Gypsum (USG) Amount: $150,000 Period: 1/1/13-12/31/13 Rheological characterization of joint compounds and foams using the methods introduced by Yarin's group. Study…











January 1, 2013
Title: "PVDF Multifunctional Microfiber Spunbond Nonwovens"Source: Nonwovens Cooperative Research Center (NCRC), NC StateAmount: $150,000Period: 1/1/13-12/31/15The study combines the ability to manufacture high-surface-area, high-strength, all-PVDF or PVDF-based nonwovens with recently developed methods capable of decorating the surface of PVDF fibers with macromolecules or thin conformal films, each adding a specific functionality. The functionalization approaches will be used to demonstrate high-performance multifunctional filters.Title: "Development and Optimization of Wettability Patterns for Efficient Water Collection from the Atmosphere"Source: NBD NanoAmount: $106,000Period: 12/15/12-12/14/13This research program concentrates on water collection from the atmosphere by means of superhydrophobic/hydrophilic patterns. The patterns will be optimized for maximum water vapor condensation rates. In addition, we will synthesize uniform coatings with varying degree of repellency and self-cleaning ability to examine…











January 1, 2013
The Chicago Consular Corps Scholarships 2012 -2013 were awarded to three MIE students, Seongchul Jun, Pahola Thathiana Benavides and Behzad Aghababazadeh. The prestigious scholarships are awarded to nine UIC students each year. Eligibility is limited to students who have a minimum cumulative UIC GPA of 3.5 on a 4.0 scale. The recipients receive $1,000 scholarships. Behzad is a student of Dr. Ryan in the Master of Energy Engineering program Pahola is a graduate student of Dr. Diwekar Seongchul is a graduate student of Dr. Yarin











January 1, 2013
MIE student Sudhanshu Jain has been selected as the recipient of this year's Abe M. Zarem Award for Distinguished Achievement in Aeronautics.This award is for his paper "Ignition and combustion characteristics of renewable fuels blended with conventional fuels" which was judged to be of outstanding quality.AIAA will pay his airfare and other expenses to attend the 2013 Aerospace Sciences Meeting and Exhibit where he will be presented with the medallion. This will also be announced in Aerospace America. The award also recognizes the faculty advisor of the winner who is professor Suresh Aggarwal. 






2012









January 1, 2012
A clinical validation experiment of the ImmersiveTouch ventriculostomy simulator developed by MIE research assistant professor Cristian Luciano has been awarded the 1st Prize at the 12th Annual International Meeting on Simulation in Healthcare (Jan 2012). Funded by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), this study was conducted by the Dr. Allan L. and Mary L. Graham Clinical Performance Center (CPC) at UIC, organized by the Director of CPC, Dr. Rachel Yudkowsdky. Comparing the performance of neurosurgery residents from four institutions (University of Chicago, Northwestern University, Rush and UIC) on both the simulator and live patients, this validation effectively proved that “Ventriculostomy practice on a library of virtual brains using a VR/Haptic simulator improves simulator and surgical outcomes”, as…











January 1, 2012
MIE Professor, Dr. Rodica Baranescu establishes an award to celebrate the successes of women in the engineering profession and to recognize their leadership and technical contributions in the Commercial Vehicle Engineering sector. The award serves to broaden the awareness of the reach and impact of women working in the mobility engineering profession. Established in 2011, the award was enabled by a gift from Dr. Rodica Baranescu, an SAE Fellow, past president of SAE international, and a member of the National Academy of Engineering. The award consists of a framed certificate and a trophy.











January 1, 2012
Dear faculty and staff,I just received the news that Dr. Stephen Choi has been elected a Fellow of ASME. Out of the total of 112,884 ASME members, less than 2.8 percent are able to be recognized at this ultimate rank of Fellows. Please join me to congratulate Steve.Best regards, FarzadThe following information is from the ASME website: "A Fellow is a member who has attained a grade of distinction. At the time of advancement, a Fellow must be a corporate-level member of the Society, shall have been responsible for significant engineering achievements, and shall have no less than 10 years of active practice and 10 years of continuous corporate membership in ASME."











January 1, 2012
Dear faculty and staff,I am very pleased to announce that our colleague Dino Megaridis has been selected as a University Scholar for 2012-2013. This is a prestigious award that is given to only a few members of the University annually. Please join me to congratulate Dino on receiving this award.Sincerely,Farzad MashayekPer the Chancellor's congratulatory letter: "The University Scholar program is designed to identify outstanding faculty who are among the very best in their fields."











January 1, 2012
The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) student organization performed well at the Design/Build/Fly competition in Wichita, KS over the weekend of April 13-15, 2012. The purpose of the competition is to give undergraduate students hands on experience with designing an aircraft. The competition consists of three different “missions”. Mission 1, where speed is tested by flying as many laps as possible within a specified period of time (4 minutes), was completed successfully. According to Bryan Whittington, a student in the Industrial and Mechanical Engineering Department at UIC and AIAA Build Project Manager, “the plane was making tight turns and managed to complete six full laps”. Mission 2, where payload endurance is tested while fully loaded, was again completed…






2011









January 11, 2011
The Pi Tau Sigma National Convention is an annual event where PTS chapters from across the nation, and occasionally from outside the nation, meet to discuss national agenda items as well as update the national board on the status of their chapter. In addition to the convention, chapters often get to tour the hosting chapter's school as well as hear corporate speakers discuss their experiences.On February 11th-13th our very own UIC Alpha Sigma chapter of PTS hosted the 90th National Convention. The convention was an immense success with sponsorship from ITW, Caterpillar, GE, Schlumberger, Boeing, ITT, and Navistar. Attendance was above 225 with students and advisors attending events. Convention events included corporate presentations, UIC lab tours, a career fair, and…











January 1, 2011
Dr. Shabana's appointment started January 1, 2011.The purpose of the ASME Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics is to provide a medium for rapid dissemination of original research results in theoretical as well as applied computational and nonlinear dynamics. The journal serves as a forum for the exchange of new ideas and applications in computational, rigid and flexible multi-body system dynamics and all aspects (analytical, numerical, and experimental) of dynamics associated with nonlinear systems. The broad scope of the journal encompasses all computational and nonlinear problems occurring in aeronautical, biological, electrical, mechanical, physical, and structural systems.











January 1, 2011
Lappeenranta University of Technology in Finland has awarded professor Ahmed Shabana the status of Honorary Professor. Lappeenranta University of Technology has defined Honorary Professor to be a professor with international high quality research and academic reputation.











January 1, 2011
Professors Darabi and Manafzadeh have been selected as recipients of this year's Teaching Recognition Program Award. They will be honored by the campus at the 2011 Faculty Awards Reception.











January 1, 2011
Rodica Baranescu is a mechanical engineer who started her professional and academic career in her native country-Romania, before immigrating to the United States in 1980. Prior to retiring in 2011, Baranescu was Chief Engineer in Engine Performance Analysis at the Technical Center of Engine and Foundry Division of Navistar International Transportation Corp. Her responsibilities included leadership and coordination of research and development activities in diesel engines for truck applications,simulation and modeling of combustion, emissions, processes and systems in diesel engines, evaluation and development of alternative fuels for heavy-duty engines.Baranescu has authored several technical papers in the field of diesel engines: performance and emission optimization of diesel engines, assessment of alternative fuels potential for automotive applications, simulation analysis of engine processes, statistical optimization of enginedesign, etc.…











January 1, 2011
Our esteemed colleague, Suresh Aggarwal, has been elected a Fellow of AAAS. This is a great honor for Suresh and for the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering.











January 1, 2011
October 2011: Dr. Megaridis has been elected Fellow of the American Physical Society (APS). Election to APS Fellowship is limited to no more than 0.5% of the APS membership and reflects recognition by one's peers of outstanding contributions to physics. The citation for Dr. Megaridis's Fellowship reads: “For pioneering the development of thermophoretic sampling, as well as contributions to the fluid dynamics of droplet impact and the behavior of fluids in nanoenclosures.”











January 1, 2011
This project started when Anna Hernandez, a sophomore from Whitney Young HS, approached her teacher for help with a science fair project. That initial contact spawned a larger scale Whitney Young biodiesel team, who contacted MIE in the Fall of 2010. The UIC MIE department has donated time and space in one of our research labs to encourage the WY project. The project has been featured previously in UIC NEWS, on a local radio station, and also went on display at the Museum of Science and Industry. Brian Sievers, the faculty mentor for WY students, is an MIE alumnus.View the ABC news segment here











January 1, 2011












January 1, 2011
The UIC Institute for Environmental Science and Policy (IESP) announces the predoctoral fellowship award competition for the 2011-2012 academic year.The mission of IESP is to advance interdisciplinary inquiry on the environment among the sciences and engineering, economics, social thought, and policy among UIC’s faculty and students, transmit workable solutions for environmental problem to the public sectors, and prepare the next generation of environmental decision-makers.Exciting thinking often lies at the borders of academic disciplines, including the many that have contributed to advances in environmental scholarship. For IESP fellowships, the program of study, the theme of the proposed research, and the methodologies to be used should seek to be interdisciplinary in nature. Interdisciplinary study is integrative, seeking to forge new models of…











January 1, 2011
What started as a science fair project for student Ana Hernandez has grown into a biodiesel club as well as a collaborative effort with the UIC Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. Ana and classmates Sabrina Kwan, Jacob Morley, Melissa Lin, and Jean Dubose have completed construction of a biodiesel processor that is now producing biodiesel fuel from donated used and new cooking oil. The department has provided a lab and start-up funds for the student project. Says Sievers (1991 BS, UIUC and 1998 MS, UIC), “The UIC faculty and graduate students are eager to help us as they plan to investigate the research possibilities of biodiesel. Whitney Young students and the UIC graduate students will perform tests of our…











January 1, 2011












January 1, 2011
Chris Pelzmann recently won one of the 40 Travel Awards ($750) for graduate/postdoc students given by the ASME Nanoengineering Council (funded and presented by the NSF CBET Director) to defray costs associated with travel to this year's ASME Society-Wide Micro & Nano Technology Forum.











January 1, 2011
A poster/paper titled "Microassembly via Coordinated Manipulation of Objects Using a Multifingered Micromanipulator" authored by Dr. Saggere and his graduate student, Chris Pelzmann, won first place (out of over 150 posters/papers) in the ASME Society-Wide Micro & Nano Technology Forum competition at the 2011 ASME IMECE held in Denver, CO, earlier this week. This research is also expected to be featured in an upcoming issue of the ASME flagship magazine Mechanical Engineering (earlier publications on this research had previously received a wide media coverage in 2007 and a Best Paper award at another conference in 2009). The work is currently funded by the NSF Nanomanufacturing Program.






2010









January 1, 2010












January 1, 2010
Dr. Dino Megaridis has just received a new NSF award for the project "Collaborative Research: A Micropatterned Wettability Approach for Superior Boiling Heat Transfer Performance." This is a collaborative grant with Iowa State University and UIC's share (with Dino as the only participant) is $151,826. ABSTRACT CBET-1235867 PIs: Daniel Attinger (Iowa State Univ.) and C. Megaridis (UIC) The high heat transfer rates attained by boiling are necessary in many industrial applications that require high performance. Consequently, innovations in materials and processes for cost-effective and high performance boiling heat transfer are of immense interest. This collaborative project will develop a science base for the fabrication, modeling and optimization of a new class of surfaces for technical heat transfer materials. These surfaces…











January 1, 2010
The E.K. Campbell Award, sponsored by the Life Members Club, is presented to an educator in recognition of outstanding service and achievement in teaching and/or research in subjects relating to the industry and professions represented by ASHRAE. The national ASHRAE organization gives this award to one person each year. Previous Award winners have included: 2010: Eckhard A. Groll, Ph.D., Fellow ASHRAE, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, Purdue University 2009: Judi Steciak, Ph.D., P.E., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, University of Idaho 2008: David B. Meredith, P.E Associate Professor Engineering Department - Pennsylvania State University ASHRAE, The American Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers, founded in 1894, is an international organization of 51,000 persons. ASHRAE fulfills its mission of advancing…











January 1, 2010
A UIC start-up company, ImmersiveTouch™, founded by Dr. Pat Banerjee recently sold its SENSIMMER® haptic augmented VR surgical system to Medical Education & Research Institute (MERI) in Memphis. The news was featured in the Memphis Daily News.











January 1, 2010
The name of the conference was "Nanofibers for the 3rd Millennium". It was organised by Elmarco, Inc.and The Nonwovens Institute at North Carolina State University at Raleigh, NC. The topic name was "Meltblowing: linear and nonlinear waves on viscoelastic polymer jets" and the abstract of the poster was: "The work is devoted to meltblown polymer jets. Polymer jets are experiencing strong stretching and flapping being subjected to the pulling action of a high speed surrounding axisymmetric gas jet. We show experimentally that bending perturbations of polymer melt jets are triggered by the surrounding turbulent eddies and enhanced by the distributed lift force acting on the jets. We study experimentally and theoretically/numerically the growth of bending perturbations of polymer jet in…











January 1, 2010
Two of Professor David He's doctoral students, Jinghua Ma and Junda Zhu, have each been awarded $1500 by the Prognostics and Health Management (PHM) Society to make a presentation in the 2010 PHM Society Doctoral Consortium at the 2010 PHM Conference, Portland, Oregon, October 10, 2010. 10 out of 25 applications were awarded.The titles of their presentation are:Jinghua Ma: "Development of Integrated Prognostics: An Application to Hybrid Ceramic Bearing Life Prediction"Junda Zhu: "Full Ceramic Bearing Health Monitoring, Diagnostics and Prognostics with Acoustic Emission and Vibration Sensors"











January 1, 2010
Title: The Audible Human ProjectDuration: 8/1/10 - 7/31/14Amount: $1,310,440PI: Royston. Rush University Medical Center Co-I's: Hansen Mansy, PhD, Richard Sandler, MD, Robert Balk, MD.Summary of project: The Visible Human Project (VHP) of the National Library of Medicine has catalyzed the development of advanced visualization software that has aided in anatomy education and has been an invaluable resource to biomedical researchers. It has aided in the development of numerous technologies, with applications spanning from improving imaging technology to simulating surgical procedures.Our long-term goal is to develop a comparable "Audible Human Project" (AHP). This would accurately simulate the production, transmission and noninvasive measurement of naturally-occurring sounds associated with cardiovascular, pulmonary and gastro-intestinal function. It would also model externally introduced sounds, for example…











January 1, 2010
A memorial service was held for MIE graduate student Olubasayo Awomolo on Monday, December 6, from 12pm to 1pm in the Mechanical and Industrial Enginnering atrium. The memorial was attended by members of Olubusayo's family, UIC faculty and students, and representatives from local news media. Olubasayo was a current graduate student in the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department at UIC, and he had previously earned his Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from UIC. He was murdered, tragically, on November 29, 2010. For more information about the memorial, click here: 'Slain Grad Student Remembered at Memorial' For the full news story, click here: 'Engineering Faculty, Classmates Stunned by Murder of Graduate Student'






2009









January 1, 2009












January 1, 2009
Director of Gear Research CenterOctober 16, 2009A workshop was held to honor Professor Faydor Litvin's contributions in the fields of mechanism and gear mechanics. Professor Litvin has been one the most recognized researchers and educators in this field and has developed new techniques for the study of gear geometry. He has published several highly cited books and research papers that document his pioneering work. He has also received many awards in recognition of his contributions. Many experts from federal laboratories and industry as well as Professor Litvin's former students attended the 2009 UIC Workshop on Gear Mechanics held at the University of Illinois at Chicago on October 16, 2009 to express their appreciation and acknowledge his significant contributions. The participants…






2008









January 1, 2008
AbstractExtensions to our collocated virtual reality and haptic techniques for simulation of a common form of brain surgery, ventriculostomy, will be explored to research a new simulator for a common step of spinal surgery, pedicle screw placement. We will help "improve health" by evaluating the spine surgery simulator for its realism and its effectiveness in teaching. Within the context of our simulator, the research involves exploring new surface deformation model for the deformability of skin over the spine and apply it to the insertion of pedicle screws through the skin in minimally invasive surgery, volumetric modeling to investigate accurate conversion of MRI data into 3D anatomical models, and simulation of real-time volume removal of bone during cutting or drilling operations.











January 1, 2008







2007









January 1, 2007
Professor Thomas J. Royston, of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering has been elected a Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) for his "significant research contributions in the area of structural acoustics and vibration, with applications in medical diagnostics, active sound and vibration control, musical instruments, nondestructive testing and high-precision instrument isolation". This brings the total number of Fellows in the MIE department to 15.











January 1, 2007
Professor Cetin has been awarded his fifth patent.United States Patent US 7,201,096 B2 was granted on April 10, 2007.The title is "Linear Motor Having a Magnetically Based Neutral Position "Abstract:The patent was awarded for a new innovative design of a direct drive linear electric motor with applications in programmable motion control systems and hydraulic valves. This is Professor Cetin's fifth patent.Inventors are Professor Sabri Cetin et al..











January 1, 2007












January 1, 2007







2006









January 1, 2006
Professor Suresh K. Aggarwal, of the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering has been elected a Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). This brings the total number of Fellows in the MIE department to 10.Dr. Aggarwal is a distinguished educator and researcher with an outstanding record of accomplishments in teaching, research, and service during the past 25 years. He has made major contributions in the areas of multiphase flows and combustion, with more than 90 peer-reviewed journal publications and 200 conference papers, and received the University of Illinois Scholar Award and the Faculty Research Award. His educational accomplishments include the mentoring of a large number of graduate students, establishment of an active international student exchange program, development…











January 1, 2006












January 1, 2006
The Spring 2006 meetings of the Executive Committee, General Committee and Technical Committee on Vibration and Sound of the ASME Design Engineering Division were held at ERF on Sunday, March 19, 2006. These meetings are held annually in conjunction with the National Manufacturing Week Conferences and Show, March 20-23, 2006 that moved to Rosemont Convention Center this year fromMcCormick Place.http://www.manufacturingweek.com/ .Many prominent people in the design area from across the country attended these meetings. Several others joined in through teleconferencing.Several MIE faculty members who are active in the Design Engineering Division were in attendance: Krishna Gupta (Division Chairman), Laxman Saggere (Chairman of the Technical Committee on Micro & Nano Systems), Ahmed Shabana (Division Secretary) and Tom Royston (Member of the…











January 1, 2006
Prof. Farid Amirouche invited by the National Academies of Science which invited 100 key reserachers in the US by reviewing individual proposals and CVs of a large number of researchers( see link). The 100 people include a combination of engineers, medical doctors, and scientists to address the question of how to make prosthesis smart or simply how to connect the brain to prosthesis. Prof. Amirouche is one of the speakers and will be in the group focusing on smart prostheis. Approximately 100 active researchers in the United States have been invited to attend the conference, with representation from science, social science, engineering and medical disciplines. The National Academies Keck Futures Initiative will pay all travel expenses, including lodging and meals,…











January 1, 2006












January 1, 2006












January 1, 2006
Two federally funded projects from the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and the U.S. Army Research Office (ARO) of the amount $3,012,059 were received to support research in the area of large scale computations. The titles and brief descriptions of these two projects are as follows:Enhancement and Development of Railroad Vehicle Dynamics Simulation Capabilities Federal Railroad Administration, 2006-2011.This is a second phase of a research project supported by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to develop and enhance comprehensive computational algorithms and capabilities for the nonlinear dynamic simulations of large scale high speed railroad vehicle systems. The goal of this research project is to provide FRA and the railroad industry with new capabilities for accurate prediction of the nonlinear dynamics behavior, vehicle…











January 1, 2006







2005









January 1, 2005
Dear Colleagues: I am pleased to inform you that Professor Farid Amirouche has been named Fellow of ASME. I would like to congratulate Farid on his award. Thanks, Bill Worek











January 1, 2005
The Department is pleased to announce that Laxman Saggere, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, has been selected to receive the National Science Foundation's Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) award for 2005. The NSF’s CAREER Program offers the National Science Foundation's most prestigious awards in support of the early career-development activities of those teacher-scholars who are most likely to become the academic leaders of the 21 st century. CAREER awardees are selected on the basis of creative proposals that effectively integrate research and education within the context of the mission of their university. Professor Saggere will be awarded $400,000 over five years for his proposal entitled: "A Biomimetic Microsystems Technology towards a Novel Retinal Prosthesis," an effort to develop a technology…











January 1, 2005
Ahmed Shabana named the Richard and Loan Hill Professor On April 14th, 2005, the College of Engineering announced the recipients of the first two Richard and Loan Hill Professorships of Engineering in the University of Illinois at Chicago. In the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department one of the Professorships were given to Professor Ahmed Shabana by Chancellor Sylvia Manning and Richard Hill. Ahmed Shabana, a Professor of the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department, received his Ph.D. from the University of Iowa in 1982 and worked as a postdoctoral fellow there before joining UIC in Fall 1983. He is internationally known for his research contributions in the areas of large scale computations as applied to dynamic and multi-body systems such as…











January 1, 2005












January 1, 2005
Farid Amirouche Professor, Department of Mechanical & Industrial Engineering Professor, Department of BioengineeringCollege of EngineeringProfessor Amirouche joined UIC after completing his doctorate at the University of Cincinnati in 1984. Sine then, he has gained national recognition for research in mechanical systems dynamics. Today, he is widely recognized for his work with flexible multi-body systems. His research concepts and inventions give drivers a solution to fatigue and chronic back pain, and aid doctors and patients in total knee replacement surgery and faster recovery.Amirouche has also used his work to minimize traffic congestion. In 2002, UIC and the University of California at Berkeley were awarded $300,000 to investigate dedicated routes for automated vehicles, a solution for clearing Chicago’s congested roads. Amirouche conducted…











January 1, 2005
Dear Colleagues:I am delighted to inform you that Dr. Rodica Baranescu from the International Truck and Engine Corporation, has accepted a position as a Professor in the College of Engineering effective Aug. 16, 2005. Her appointment would be 25% in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering. She is the second Member of the National Academy of Engineering who has joined our UIC College of Engineering faculty this year. Dr. Baranescu received her M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Mechanical Engineering in 1961 and 1970 respectively from Politehnica University in Bucharest Romania, where she also served as Assistant Professor (1964-68), Lecturer (1970-74), and Associate Professor (1974-78).She is currently Manager of the Fuels and Lubricants and Engine Group of the International Truck…











January 1, 2005
Professor Cetin has been awarded his fourth patent.United States Patent 6,917,867 was granted on July 12, 2005.The title is "Operator Input Device with Tactile Feedback using force or torque as resistance to the user"Abstract:The patent is on the subject of providing operator input devices with tactile feedback using force or torque as resistance to the user. The device is applicable in computer controlled mechanical systems, in particular X-by-wire systems used in automotive applications, construction equipment, fly-by-wire systems and virtual robotic surgery. Earlier patents of Professor Cetin are in the field of computer controller electro-hydraulic systems, with primary applications in energy efficient construction equipment.Inventors are Professor Sabri Cetin and his graduate students.The Assignees are Caterpillar Inc. Peoria, IL (US); University of Illinois…











January 1, 2005












January 1, 2005
Ahmed Shabana named the Richard and Loan Hill Professor On April 14th, 2005, the College of Engineering announced the recipients of the first two Richard and Loan Hill Professorships of Engineering in the University of Illinois at Chicago. In the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department one of the Professorships were given to Professor Ahmed Shabana by Chancellor Sylvia Manning and Richard Hill. Ahmed Shabana, a Professor of the Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Department, received his Ph.D. from the University of Iowa in 1982 and worked as a postdoctoral fellow there before joining UIC in Fall 1983. He is internationally known for his research contributions in the areas of large scale computations as applied to dynamic and multi-body systems such as…











January 1, 2005
The two winners are: Mr. Michael Remke and Mr. John Pucek. These two applications were ranked highest by the MIE UG Student Advisory Board and confirmed by the MIE UG Faculty Committee. We thank all the applicants for their efforts. We also thank the UGSAB for carefully reviewing the applications.Mr. Remke's project is entitled: "Computation Fluid Dynamic Analysis of a Vertical-Axis Wind Turbine"Mr. Pucek's project is entitled: "Microphone Emulation"Rules:Through the generosity of Northrop Grumman, we are pleased to announce two undergraduate scholarships to be awarded Spring 2005. Two undergraduate students from the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering will be awarded $1500 each. The scholarship will be based on academic standing, extra curricular activity, and a proposed undergraduate research project…






2004









January 1, 2004












January 1, 2004
Dear Colleagues: I am pleased to inform you that College of Engineering Distinguished Professor Emeritus Faydor L. Litvin has won ASME (American Society of Mechanical Engineers) Thomas A. Edison award for his patent "Apparatus and Method for Precision Grinding Face Gear". This patent revolutionized the manufacturability and achievable quality of hardened face gears and reduces weight of helicopter transmissions. The Thomas A. Edison Patent Award, which was established in 1997, is given yearly to one individual for a patented device or process with the potential to enhance some aspect of mechanical engineering. Professor Litvin will receive the award on Monday, November 15, 2004 at ASME's International Mechanical Engineering Congress in Anaheim, CA. Congratulations to Professor Litvin for receiving the Edison…











January 1, 2004












January 1, 2004












January 1, 2004
Dear MIE Faculty:I am pleased to inform you the Professor Ahmed Shabana has been awarded an Honorary Doctorate Degree of Science in Technology from Lappeenranta University of Technology. This award, given on May 28th, 2004, was given for "significant scientific work in the field of multibody dynamics and machine simulation as well as for supporting our university (Lappeenranta) in the development of research at the Department of Mechanical Engineering."Congratulations Ahmed!Sincerely,Bill Worek











January 1, 2004
 Pictured (from left to right): Professor Worek, Jason Wennerberg, Matthew Matuzas, Robert Kleiber, Professor Amirouche  Pictured (from left to right): Professor Worek, Irma Romiti, Mike Kabakov, Robert Kleiber, Professor Amirouche  Pictured (from left to right): Professor Worek, Shailin Patel, Robert Kleiber, Professor Amirouche






2003









January 1, 2003
For the second year in a row, the annual Winter/Spring Committee Meetings of the ASME Design Division were held at ERF facilities (ERF 1043, 1047, 3041). The meetings held were those of the Executive Committee, General Committee, International Activity Committee, Vibration and Sound Committee and Design Education Committee. Almost 30 participants from academia and industry from across the country participated in these committee meetings. These committee meetings are always held in March in Chicago in conjunction with the National Manufacturing Week show and conferences, and ASME Design Division plays a major role in the conference portion of NMW activities. Before UIC was tapped for these meetings last year, these meetings were held in McCormick Place for decades. However, the participants…











January 1, 2003












January 1, 2003
Professor Farid M. Amirouche will be an invited speaker at the World Academy of Biomedical Technologies (WABT)during the Bio Nanotechnologies and Drugs meeting on May 27, 2003 in Paris, France. Professor Amirouche will be presenting a paper entitled "Bone Cell Mechanics". He is also serving on the Chairman Coordinators Committee for the Micro and Nanotechnologies for Medicine and Surgery meeting held May 26, 2003. Founded in 1997, the objective of the Academy is to create a forum where scientists, engineers, doctors and industrial leaders etc. can exchange views in a cooperative manner to assist in discoveries and transfer of information in the field of biomedical technologies, for the benefit of mankind. One important purpose of the Academy is to promote…











January 1, 2003
Professor Farid M. Amirouche will be a keynote speaker at the International Congress on Sports Dynamics - ICSD 2003, September 1-3, 2003 in Melbourne, Australia. His talk will be entitled "The Fitting of Human Joints During Arthoplasty and Sports".The inaugural International Congress on Sports Dynamics, ICSD 2003 aims to provide an international forum for engineers and scientists from around the world who are involved in Sports Dynamics research. The Congress will enable the participants to present and discuss latest trends and findings and to learn about the state-of-the-art in their particular field(s) of interest. Sports Dynamics focuses on the sports, athletes and technology used thus providing scope for interdisciplinary collaboration between various engineering disciplines and diversified areas of sciences such…











January 1, 2003
Claudya Arana and Ilker Bayer, graduate students in Mechanical Engineering, have been selected recipients of the Chancellor's Student Service Award for 2003. This award is given annually to students who have devoted their time and energy through exceptional volunteer service. Aranda and Bayer will be given an award by Chancellor Sylvia Manning at a ceremony on April 14, 2003. Bayer is a member of the New Life Voluteering Society of UIC and the Integritas Institute.











January 1, 2003
Two MIE graduate students have recently been awarded NSF Fellowships. Claudya Arana (BS ME, 02) has received the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Award, and Andrew Lock (BS ME, 02) has received an Honorable Mention. Both are currently working in Prof. Ishwar Puri's laboratory on problems related to pollutant mitigation from chemically reacting flows and nanoparticle formation in these flows.NSF Graduate Fellowships offer recognition and three years of support for advanced study including a stipend for a 12-month tenure and an annual cost-of-education allowance paid to the Fellow's institution in lieu of tuition and fees. There are 900 total awards across various social science, science and engineering disciplines each year. NSF made 284 Fellowship Awards in engineering out of a pool…






2002









January 1, 2002
Professor Cetin has been awarded his third patent.United States Patent 6,459,976 was granted on October 1, 2002.The title is "Method and System for Controlling Steady-state Speed of Hydraulic Cylinders in an Electrohydraulic System."Abstract:A method and system for controlling the steady-state speed of a cylinder in an electrohydraulic system having multiple cylinders includes a plurality of levers for controlling each of the cylinders. A controller, in communication with the levers and the hydraulic cylinders, has a limited number of parameters defining at least one desired relationship between steady-state speed and lever position for each of the cylinders stored therein. The controller further determines a current desired relationship for each of the cylinders from the associated at least one desired relationships. Upon…











January 1, 2002












January 1, 2002
The paper "Fine-Line Conductor Manufacturing Using Advanced Drop-On-Demand PZT Printing Technology," written by J. B. Szczech, C. M. Megaridis, D. R. Gamota and J. Zhang, has been published in the January 2002 issue of IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging Manufacturing.The cover of this issue (left) shows an illustration of the selective metallization process developed by Ph.D. student John Szczech, in collaboration with Drs. D. Gamota and J. Zhang of Motorola. The process utilizes drop-on-demand ink jet printing and recent developments in non-particle fluid suspensions to fabricate file-line circuit interconnects. On the left of the shown image is an optimized jetting condition and an example (bottom left) of a trace it is capable of fabricating. The condition on the right depicts…











January 1, 2002
The University of Illinois at Chicago has participated in a significant number of intelligent transportation systems initiatives in the last decade. Beginning with ADVANCE, a vehicle navigation project led by the Illinois Department of Transportation, and continuing with ongoing initiatives to provide systems engineering support for the development of Traffic Management Centers in Northeastern Illinois, the University has played an active role in intelligent transportation systems research and design.Recently Professor Farid M. Amirouche of the College of Engineering initiated a joint effort with the University of California at Berkeley to perform an analysis and estimate system benefits for two vehicle highway automation systems projects dealing with the specific needs of the Chicago area. Working with the Chicago Area Transportation Study,…











January 1, 2002
Professor Thomas J. Royston, Associate Professor and Associate Department Head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, is recipient of the 2002 UIC College of Engineering Faculty Research Award. Royston will be honored at an awards dinner on April 26, 2002. Professor Royston's research interests include structural acoustics and vibration, nonlinear dynamics, smart material systems & structures, medical diagnostics based on vibration and acoustics, musical instrument acoustics, nondestructive evaluation based on vibration and acoustics, and vibration isolation. Professor Royston is director of the Acoustics and Vibrations Laboratory, a state of the art research and educational facility involved in theoretical, computational and experimental analysis and design. Team members work on both basic and applied research projects for government, private and industrial sponsors…











January 1, 2002
Professor Farid M. Amirouche was nominated to receive the UIC Inventor of the Year 2002 Award. He was honored at an awards ceremony on Wednesday, April 3, 2002 as part of the TECHDAY2002 Conference organized by the UIC Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research. Candidates for this prestigious award must meet the following criteria: The nominee must be a full-time UIC faculty or staff member; The nominee must be a primary inventor or creator of a University of Illinois at Chicago technology which is patented or copyrighted and for which significant research effort conducted at UIC contributed to the advancement of knowledge in the field; and The technology has been developed into a product or process that has had…











January 1, 2002
Professor Sabri Cetin has been awarded two new patents in 2001-2002.United States Patent 6,330,502 was granted on December 11, 2001. The title is "Method and system for selecting desired response of an electronic-controlled sub-system."Abstract: A method and system for altering operating behavior of a sub-system component of a machine to suit a user's preference includes a database for storing a plurality of parameters associated with the operating behavior of the sub-system component. The parameters have sets of values associated therewith wherein each set of values define one of a plurality of acceptable operating behaviors for the sub-system component. A sub-system controller receives a selection signal from the operator via a user interface selecting one of the set of values of the…











January 1, 2002
Title: Nanotechnology Interdisciplinary Research Teams: Carbon Nanopipes for Nanofluidic Devices and In-situ Fluid Studies Principal Investigator: Yury Gogotsi (Drexel University and Adjunct Professor, UIC) Co-PI(s): Constantine Megaridis (UIC) Haim Bau (University of Pennsylvania) Jean-Claude Bradley (Drexel University) Submitting Institution: Drexel University NSF Division of Chemical and Thermal Systems Period: 08/1/02-7-31/06 Abstract: Carbon nanotubes (nanopipes) offer a unique opportunity for fundamental studies of fluid transport in the spatial regime between molecular and continuum behavior. This research includes: (a) fabrication, characterization, and modification of carbon nanopipes, (b) performance of chemical and fluidic experiments, and (c) fabrication of experimental setups that would allow transport and measurements of various liquid flows in a controlled fashion. Both actuation and imaging of the fluid are done…











January 1, 2002
Prof. Michael J. Scott, working together with Prof. Stephen Melamed of the Department of Industrial Design in the College of Architecture & the Arts and Prof. Albert Page from the Marketing Faculty in the College of Business Administration, is piloting an innovative new course on Integrated Product Development IPD). Taught concurrently as AD420, ME494, and MKTG594, this year-long course focuses on the early stages of the product development process, from identifying market opportunities through initial prototyping. Teams consisting of 6-7 students from industrial design, engineering, and the MBA program work together to identify, research, and develop new product opportunities together with an industrial client sponsor. Eschewing the old sequential model of product development, in which a design idea originates in…











January 1, 2002
Andrew J. Lock has been selected to receive the U of I Alumni Association 2002 Student Leadership Award. This is given to exceptional graduating seniors and this year only 50 of our nearly 3,000 graduates will receive this award. Chancellor Sylvia Manning will present the honor at the Student and Constituent Awards Dinner on Tuesday, April 2.Lock is a Mechanical Engineering major planning to graduate with a BSME in May 2002. His undergraduate advisor is Professor Brianno Coller. Lock has been accepted into the Ph.D. program at UIC to work under Professor Ishwar K. Puri in his combustion laboratory. In conjunction with his acceptance into the Ph.D. progam at UIC, Lock was awarded a university fellowship as well. Previously he…











 











 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















