
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Living in Chicago				




Living in Chicago











 
Chicago is a world-class city known for its cultural diversity. The city has one of the world’s most iconic skylines, more than 25 miles of beautiful beaches along Lake Michigan, and an abundance of shopping in its vibrant downtown and throughout its 77 neighborhoods. As America’s third-largest city, Chicago has some of the world’s best museums, innovative and accessible art, eclectic music and theater scenes, and diverse dining choices. Its cultural offerings are second to none.
For the sports enthusiast, the city has several professional sports teams. The Blackhawks in the NHL, the Bears in the NFL, Bulls in the NBA, Fire in the MLS, and the White Sox and Cubs in the MLB.
The Chicago Marathon has been held each year since 1977 except for 1987, when a half marathon was run in its place. The Chicago Marathon is one of six World Marathon Majors, and attracts runners from around the world.
The University of Illinois at Chicago is Chicago’s largest public research university. The campus is located in the heart of the city, just west of the Loop, and it is readily accessible by plane, train, bus, car, bike or on foot. UIC provides access to a vast network of expressways, parking, public transit and other transportation options to save money and reduce stress.
The greater Chicago area is home to many industries, and the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering has strong relationships with these companies and institutions, which present numerous opportunities for internships and full-time employment.
Learn more about life in Chicago and what it has to offer students and faculty throughout the year 








 











 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















