

















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Congratulations to Don McLauchlan				

December 4, 2018 


Congratulations to Don McLauchlan






 
 


Winner of the 2018 UIC Engineering Alumni Outstanding Achievement Award
Don McLauchlan, a member of the Master of Energy Engineering Advisory Board, recently won the UIC Engineering Alumni Outstanding Achievement Award. This award is presented to alumni who, through their achievement in their field of engineering, have significantly enhanced the industry and who inspire and help to instill a sense of pride among the alumni, students, faculty and staff of UIC.
Don has served as one of Elara Engineering Principals since the firm’s founding in 2001. Prior to that he was Technical Solutions Leader and General Manager for Honeywell after Honeywell’s 1999 acquisition of Arrowhead Environmental Control, the company he owned and was President and CEO of from 1978 to 1999.
Throughout his career, McLauchlan has demonstrated a passion for energy efficiency which has been a catalyst for his numerous innovative engineering solutions. McLauchlan is an active member of many professional organizations including ASHRAE, ASME,AEE, NSPE, American Solar Energy Society and a member of several civic boards.
He earned his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Illinois at Chicago, and his B.A. from Southern Illinois University.
Learn more about the MEE program at . 
In photo is (from left) MIE Professor Bill Ryan, Geri McLauchlan, Don McLauchlan, and MIE Department Head Farzad Mashayek. 
 



Facebook


Twitter


Google Plus


Linkedin


Tumblr


Email












You may also like

















davidst








NextUIC Engineers Hosts ‘Noche de Ciencias’ for Young Latino Students






 





 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















