


















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					UIC Engineers Hosts ‘Noche de Ciencias’ for Young Latino Students				

November 14, 2018 


UIC Engineers Hosts ‘Noche de Ciencias’ for Young Latino Students






 
 


UIC’s Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) hosted “Noche de Ciencias” (Night of Science) on Saturday, Nov. 3rd at Instituto del Progreso Latino to showcase the talent of young students in STEM field. Noche de Ciencias is a national event that occurs to increase interest and promote science, technology, engineering, and math. In Chicago, the event included hands-on activities that showed students in 6th through 12th grades the creativity of engineering while supplying them with information on STEM education and careers.
“Our mission is to support our members to successfully achieve in their careers and empower our community to strive for similar success. Noche de Ciencias is an opportunity for SHPE to inspire families to get involved in STEM and help to answer important questions about college,” said Daisy Cueto, a student in the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, in a statement. “It is crucial that we advocate to our community because we do not always receive the same opportunities or information. As students who are fortunate to be studying STEM in a university, we are determined to mentor and inspire younger students.”
Read the full story from the Lawndale News at .
Photo by Stephanie Paredes, UIC College of Engineering
 



Facebook


Twitter


Google Plus


Linkedin


Tumblr


Email












You may also like

















davidst






PreviousCongratulations to Don McLauchlan


NextIndustrial Engineering Student Starts Business to Bring Tech to Underserved Communities






 





 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















