


















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Registration is Open for Annual Lunch with an Industrial Engineer				

October 11, 2018 


Registration is Open for Annual Lunch with an Industrial Engineer






 
 


Registration is open for UIC’s annual Lunch with an Industrial Engineer open house. Hosted by the Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering (MIE) at the University of Illinois at Chicago, the event is set for Saturday, Nov. 17, 2018, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Engineering Research Facility (ERF), 842 W. Taylor St., Chicago.
The free event is for area high school students and their parents/guardians to learn about our department’s Industrial Engineering degree program, and the wide-range of careers open to graduates. The lunch will include an interactive information session, lab tours, and hands-on engineering challenges to learn how industrial engineers work in the real world. At the end of this exciting program, we will serve lunch and invite our faculty and student ambassadors to sit down with participants to answer questions about industrial engineering and UIC.
“We are looking for students who are inquisitive and curious about the world around them, to discover the imaginative aspects of engineering,” said Quintin Williams, a clinical assistant professor in MIE. “This is an opportunity for students that have an interest in various fields associated with business, science, technology, and engineering. It’s for those who want to try new things and use their heads and hands to solve problems.”  
Industrial engineering is the business side of engineering. This major is essential to the progress and success of business and industry solutions of today. Industrial engineering serves as a career track that infuses business, engineering, management, and human services together to meet the optimal goal of a company’s bottom line.
Industrial Engineering focuses on the design, improvement, and installation of integrated systems of people, material, and equipment. UIC’s Industrial engineering program gives knowledge of principles and methods in engineering design, physical sciences, and social sciences. This knowledge is used to specify, predict, and evaluate systems. By collecting, analyzing, and arranging such knowledge, industrial engineers enable management to utilize resources effectively and efficiently. In order to design and operate complex systems, the industrial engineer must acquire comprehensive knowledge in the following areas: manufacturing engineering; production engineering; systems engineering; human factors/ergonomics; maintenance; and safety engineering.
Registration is open until Nov. 16, 2018, or until maximum capacity is reached. To register or learn more about the event, visit .
By 
 



Facebook


Twitter


Google Plus


Linkedin


Tumblr


Email












You may also like

















davidst






PreviousIndustrial Engineering Student Starts Business to Bring Tech to Underserved Communities


NextNew Engineering Organization Building Electric Car and Opportunities






 





 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















