
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift 


 


 
ACADEMICS

Prospective Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
ChemE Minor
Special Programs


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
AIChE
GrACE
Study Abroad
Career Center
Student Awards
Student Resources
Updates


RESEARCH

Research Labs & Focus Areas
Laboratory Safety


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Faculty Awards
Alumni
Current Graduate Students


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Events
Seminars
News Archive
Open positions
Give to ChemE
Contact Us






 



















 




























































  










					Future Students				




Future Students











 The mission of the Department of Chemical Engineering is to serve society through excellence in education, research, and public service. We provide for our students an education in chemical engineering, and we aspire to instill in them the attitudes, values, and vision that will prepare them for lifetimes of continued learning and leadership in their chosen careers. Through scholarship, the Department strives to generate new knowledge and technology for the benefit of the State of Illinois, the nation, and beyond.
RESEARCH FOCUS AREAS





Advanced Materials
Biotechnology
Biotransport
Complex Fluids
Computational Fluid Dynamics
Computational Research
Drug Delivery





Electrochemistry
Fizzics
Graphene and 2D Nanomaterials
Microelectronic Materials & Processing
Nanotechnology
Nano-Manufacturing
Optics and Optoelectronics





Polymers
Reaction Kinetics and Process Analysis
Renewable Energy
Separation Technology and Membranes
Soft Matter
Surface Science
Water Treatment


UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES


The BS in Chemical Engineering program offers expertise in a wide variety of areas, including thermodynamics, separation processes, transport phenomena, reactor design, combustion, and process control. Students may use elective courses to specialize in these and other areas. Further, BS in Chemical Engineering provides an excellent curriculum to prepare  The program’s goal is to prepare students for careers in industry or government, and for further study at the graduate level. As the only chemical engineering department at a public university in the Chicago metropolitan area, this program provides unique opportunities for students to interact with world-class industries through research projects and internship programs.
I. Program Requirements
A. Degree Requirements






 B. Special Programs 


BS in Chemical Engineering, Biochemical Engineering Concentration


 Students in this concentration complete the following:



Required Courses *


Technical Elective


CHE 422
Biochemical Engineering
3


Electives


Select two electives in nonmajor rubric category from the following:
5-7


BIOS 350
General Microbiology
 


BIOS 351
Microbiology Laboratory
 


CHEM 352
Introductory Biochemistry
 


CHEM 452
Biochemistry I
 


Total Hours
8-10



* Due to structure of concentration and the prerequisites required for some of the courses, students in the concentration will be required to take a minimum of 130 semester hours for the degree. For more information, please go through the same section in the .


Honors Program


 After they have been admitted to UIC, all incoming freshmen with an ACT composite score of at least 28 or an SAT total score of 1240, and who rank in the top 15 percent of their high school class, are invited to join the (membership is not automatic; students must submit an application). 





II. How to Apply
A. Entrance Requirements


B. Admissions


C. Financial Aid and Scholarship





GRADUATE STUDIES


The Department of Chemical Engineering offers a program leading to the  and to the  in Chemical Engineering. The primary areas upon which these fields are based are continuum and molecular fluid mechanics, heat and mass transfer, macroscopic and microscopic thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, and process analysis. Application areas include energy production and utilization, material properties under extreme conditions, biologically-based processes, and the environment.
I. Program Requirements
A. MS Thesis/ Project/ Course-Work Only



B. PhD



C. Special Programs










II. How to Apply
A. Entrance Requirements 


Graduate Program


 The department reviews each applicant on an individual basis. Complete transcripts of all undergraduate and any graduate work must be submitted. In addition to meeting the Graduate College minimum requirements, applicants must meet the following program requirements: Baccalaureate Field:
Engineering or Chemistry.
Grade Point Average:
At least 3.00/4.00 for the final 60 semester hours (90 quarter hours) of undergraduate study, for the master’s program, and at least 3.50 for the doctoral program. In exceptional cases, applicants with averages below 3.00 but above 2.75 may be admitted on limited standing if they show evidence of substantial ability to complete the program successfully.
Tests Required: (ETS institution code: 1851)
GRE general
Minimum English Competency Test Score:
TOEFL 80, with subscores of Reading 19, Listening 17, Speaking 20, and Writing 21 (iBT Internet-based), OR,
IELTS 6.5, with subscores of 6.0 for all four subscores, OR,
PTE-Academic 54, with subscores of Reading 51, Listening 47, Speaking 53, and Writing 56. OR
Recommendation Letters:
3 required
Personal Statement:
Required





B. Admissions




C. Fellowship & Financial Aid





 












 
Connect With Us 
 
 

   
    
  312-996-0808

Quick Links





Internal Links



 
Make a Gift
 
 







  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















