
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift 


 


 
ACADEMICS

Prospective Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
ChemE Minor
Special Programs


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
AIChE
GrACE
Study Abroad
Career Center
Student Awards
Student Resources
Updates


RESEARCH

Research Labs & Focus Areas
Laboratory Safety


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Faculty Awards
Alumni
Current Graduate Students


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Events
Seminars
News Archive
Open positions
Give to ChemE
Contact Us






 



















 




























































  










					Undergraduate Studies				




Undergraduate Studies











In the Chemical Engineering curriculum, students learn to apply chemistry, physics, and mathematics to the industrial-scale production of chemicals, including petroleum products, polymers, pharmaceuticals,electronic devices, and foods. This program also explores chemical engineering applications in environmental protection,waste treatment, the creation of alternative energy sources, and other frontiers, such as microelectronic materials and nanotechnology.
The BS in Chemical Engineering program offers expertise in a wide variety of areas, including thermodynamics, separation processes, transport phenomena, reactor design, combustion, and process control. Students may use elective courses to specialize in these and other areas. The program's goal is to prepare students for careers in industry or government, and for further study at the graduate level. As the only chemical engineering department at a public university in the Chicago metropolitan area, this program provides unique opportunities for students to interact with world-class industries through research projects and internship programs.
All College of Engineering undergraduate students are required to be advised before they are able to register for classes each semester. Advising hold will not be removed until you are advised. Sign-up is required for Advising and takes place during the 9th week of the semester. Advising for Chemical Engineering Students is during the 10th week of instruction.






GETTING STARTED

 - information on how to apply to the College of Engineering


 - Chemical Engineering program requirements and course offerings








DEGREE REQUIREMENTS




 – overview of Prerequisites for all the courses




SPECIAL PROGRAMS






UNDERGRADUATE FORMS

 – required to change major in college


 – course substitution













For more information, please visit the  website.
OTHER IMPORTANT LINKS












 


 












 
Connect With Us 
 
 

   
    
  312-996-0808

Quick Links





Internal Links



 
Make a Gift
 
 







  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















