
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift 


 


 
ACADEMICS

Prospective Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
ChemE Minor
Special Programs


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
AIChE
GrACE
Study Abroad
Career Center
Student Awards
Student Resources
Updates


RESEARCH

Research Labs & Focus Areas
Laboratory Safety


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Faculty Awards
Alumni
Current Graduate Students


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Events
Seminars
News Archive
Open positions
Give to ChemE
Contact Us






 



















 




























































  










					Special Programs				




Special Programs











 UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS
 CHEMICAL ENGINEERING FOR PRE-MED STUDENTS
ATTENTION: Current & Future Pre-Med Majors! Have you considered a Chemical Engineering major as your route to medical school? BENEFITS: 1. Medical schools are increasingly looking for students with non-traditional degrees. A degree in chemical engineering will make you stand out among the competition and improve your chances of being admitted to medical school. Also, if you are interested in research, a chemical engineering background is highly valued in the medical community. At UIC you can minor in biochemical engineering as well. 2. It will help you professionally. Chemical engineering represents a versatile mind-set for analyzing and developing complex systems – from pharmaceutical plants to nano-materials. The human body is an engineering marvel, and you will be better able to understand it with your chemical engineering education. You will learn how the functions performed by human organs have close analogs in process equipment, and you will develop understanding of artificial organs. 3. Your well-rounded, high-powered expertise as a chemical engineer will be in demand. A chemical engineering degree leaves your options open, like an insurance policy in case you decide to change your career path. For decades chemical engineering graduates have maintained their position among the highest paid. Average starting salaries for bachelor’s degree chemical engineers are approximately $53,000. 4. The Chemical Engineering department at UIC offers World-class education in a leading-edge research environment, with plenty of individualized, personal attention and guidance. For further information, please contact us.We can help you apply to transfer to UIC Chemical Engineering . MORE INFORMATION:

Chemical Engineering students who desire complete pre-medicine requirements are advised to meet with a pre-health advisor by completing the .
Also see: 





 Coordinator of UG Program 





 Chair, Undergraduate Committee 






 Department Head 






GRADUATE STUDENTS



 












 
Connect With Us 
 
 

   
    
  312-996-0808

Quick Links





Internal Links



 
Make a Gift
 
 







  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















