
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift 


 


 
ACADEMICS

Prospective Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
ChemE Minor
Special Programs


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
AIChE
GrACE
Study Abroad
Career Center
Student Awards
Student Resources
Updates


RESEARCH

Research Labs & Focus Areas
Laboratory Safety


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Faculty Awards
Alumni
Current Graduate Students


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Events
Seminars
News Archive
Open positions
Give to ChemE
Contact Us






 



















 




























































  










					Our Department				




Our Department








WELCOME FROM THE HEAD


 Welcome to the website for the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago. The Department offers a powerful curriculum that trains students to study, design and implement efficient, sustainable, and economic processes at scales ranging from nano-scale to macro-scale. Our award-winning and experienced faculty perform state-of-the-art research, employ advanced teaching methodologies and conduct professional service activities with students, while providing an engaging learning experience. Chemical engineering graduates become experts in engineering processes, design principles and cutting-edge research. 










The department facilitates active student engagement with industry recruiters, educators, and alumni. Our graduates are in high demand () as they design and implement a wide range of industrial processes including conversion of crude oil to petrochemicals, production of pharmaceuticals, generation of energy, development of environmentally benign technologies, fabrication of semiconductor wafers for computers, extraction of oil, processing food, designing medical operations, making plastic bottles, brewing quality beer, producing strong cement for buildings, and building smooth surface of cellphones (plus many more). These processes may be classified into one or more of the following categories: biological, chemical, environmental, thermodynamic, interfacial, kinetic, fluidic, electronic, optical, semiconductor fabrication or quantum mechanical.
This year, the department is home to 290 undergraduate students, 69 graduate students and 13 faculty members (including 5 NSF-CAREER Awardees). These are exciting times for the department, which is undergoing tremendous growth. The CHE faculty extends a warm invitation to you to come visit the department.
MISSION OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
The mission of the Department of Chemical Engineering is to serve society through excellence in education, research, and public service. We provide for our students an education in chemical engineering, and we aspire to instill in them the attitudes, values, and vision that will prepare them for lifetimes of continued learning and leadership in their chosen careers. Through scholarship, the Department strives to generate new knowledge and technology for the benefit of the State of Illinois, the nation, and beyond.


 












 
Connect With Us 
 
 

   
    
  312-996-0808

Quick Links





Internal Links



 
Make a Gift
 
 







  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















