
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift 


 


 
ACADEMICS

Prospective Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
ChemE Minor
Special Programs


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
AIChE
GrACE
Study Abroad
Career Center
Student Awards
Student Resources
Updates


RESEARCH

Research Labs & Focus Areas
Laboratory Safety


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Faculty Awards
Alumni
Current Graduate Students


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Events
Seminars
News Archive
Open positions
Give to ChemE
Contact Us






 



















 




























































  










					News Archive				




News Archive















2018









October 4, 2018
An Interview with Dr. Vikas Berry











October 3, 2018
CHICAGO -- While some 3D printers are easy to buy and are getting cheaper, that doesn’t mean people will be able to print a gun in their kitchens.






2017









May 9, 2017
The electrochemical performance of three different types of membrane-containing electrolyte-flow schemes for solar-driven water splitting has been studied quantitatively using 1-dimensional and 2-dimensional multi-physics models. The Nernstian potential loss associated with pH gradients at the electrode surfaces, the resistive loss between the cathode and anode, the product-gas crossovers, and the required pumping energy in all three schemes have been evaluated as a function of the operational current density, the flow rates for the electrolyte, and the physical dimensions of the devices.











March 22, 2017
Chemical Engineering professor and NETenergy founder and CEO featured in Midwest Energy News











February 24, 2017
What can’t graphene do? You can scratch “detect cancer” off of that list.






2016









July 25, 2016
Dr. Gang Cheng, PhD from University of Washington Seattle (2009) joins the Chemical Engineering Faculty as an Associate Professor with tenure. Prior to this appointment at UIC, Dr. Cheng was an Associate Professor and Assistant Professor at the University of Akron. Dr. Cheng was also an adjunct professor of Integrative Medical Sciences at Northeast Ohio Medical University. Dr. Cheng’s group is engaged in multidisciplinary research (polymeric materials, biosensing, microbiology, molecular biology, biochemistry and electrochemistry) centered on zwitterionic polyelectrolytes by exploring the connections between new polymer chemistry/physics and applications. Over the past seven years, Dr. Cheng’s group has made significant contributions to the field of biomaterials by designing and studying novel zwitterionic polyelectrolytes for drug delivery, biosensing and antimicrobial coatings. The…











July 24, 2016
Dr. Shafigh Mehraeen, PhD from Stanford University (2011) joins the Chemical Engineering Faculty as an Assistant Professor. Prior to this appointment at UIC, Dr. Mehraeen was a postdoctoral fellow at MIT. After two-year postdoctoral career at the Center for Organic Electronics in Georgia Institute of Technology, he received the MIT postdoctoral fellowship and worked in the Chemistry Department at MIT since then. His research has focused on developing new methods to explore dynamics of directed self-assembly of sub-10 nm particles with single particle positioning resolution, predict the role of donor-acceptor interfacial properties on charge generation and energy losses in organic solar cells, and explain the impact of materials disorder on charge transport properties of organic semiconductors. Dr. Mehraeen has authored…











July 23, 2016
Dr. Meenesh R. Singh joins the Department of Chemical Engineering as an Assistant Professor and will be the director of the Materials and Systems Engineering Lab (MaSEL) at UIC. Prior to his appointment at UIC, he was a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Joint Center for Artificial Photosynthesis with a joint affiliation to UC Berkeley and Lawrence Berkeley National Lab.Dr. Singh obtained his B.E degree in chemical engineering from Sardar Patel University in 2005, M.Tech degree in chemical engineering from Indian Institute of Technology Bombay in 2008 and Ph.D is chemical engineering from Purdue University in 2013. His doctoral research at Purdue University was under the guidance of Prof. D. Ramkrishna, where he developed novel computational and experimental tools to study…











June 25, 2016
Prof. Brian Chaplin receives a new NSF-grant entitled “Multifunctional Electro-reactive Membranes for Efficient Biomass Separation” ($160K)











May 25, 2016
Associate Professor Ying Liu was named Recipient of a 2015 UIC Researcher and Scholar of the Year Award by The U.I.C. Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research (OVCR). "These honors recognize and celebrate the efforts and commitment of individuals who are advancing knowledge in their area of research and scholarship. Dr. Liu was one of four UIC early career researchers to receive the Rising Star award.











May 25, 2016
Ms. Deisy Arrington (PhD student in Berry Research Lab) wins the prestigious National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship (NSF-GRF) worth $138,000. Deisy is performing research on using novel functionalization schemes on graphene for cancer marker detection.











March 25, 2016
UIC had a great Reception at AIChE-2015, where ChE faculty interacted with several Alumni, students and friends.











February 26, 2016
Assistant Professor Ying Liu awarded the prestigious NSF CAREER award entitled "Understanding Nanoprecipitation - Scalable Production of Polymeric Nanoparticles Encapsulating Hydrophobic Compounds".






2015









October 25, 2015
Assistant Professor Vivek Sharma receives the Distinguished Young Rheologist Award from TA Instruments. This award, which includes an instrument grant is bestowed on a promising young researcher nominated by an international panel of the most established and respected academic researchers from the Society of Rheology.











October 25, 2015
The Department of Chemical Engineering had its first Annual Industry Day on 23rd Oct 2015 with great engagement between students and the industry.











September 26, 2015
The Department of Chemical Engineering welcomes Dr. Sangil Kim, who joins the faculty as an Assistant Professor. Prior to his appointment at UIC, he was a staff scientist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) and an adjunct research faculty at the Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering at the University of Pittsburgh.











March 26, 2015
Chemical Engineer and South Carolina educator Michael D. Amiridis named UIC Chancellor/Vice President. Before serving as the Executive Vice President for academic affairs and Provost at the University of South Carolina, Amiridis was the Dean of South Carolina’s College of Engineering and Computing from 2006 to 2009, and served as the Chair of the Department of Chemical Engineering from 2002 to 2006. Dr. Amiridis earned his undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from Aristotelian University of Thessaloniki in Greece, and his Ph.D. in chemical engineering from the University of Wisconsin at Madison. His research interests focus on the synthesis and catalytic characterization of bimetallic nanoparticles with controlled composition and architecture. He has won several awards for his academic work including the…











March 26, 2015
Associate Professor Vikas Berry's research group's latest paper published in Scientific Reports (Mar 2015) gets featured in Washington Post, Wall Street Journal (R&D Section), EE-Times, Motherboard and several other news portals. Topic: Electron transport through graphene quantum dots interfaced with a single spore: A Cyborg Nano-Electro-Robotic-Device (NERD). Vikas Berry and Sanjay Behura (postdoctoral fellow in the group) also published a paper in ACS Nano on non-degenerate doping of 2D semiconductors.











February 26, 2015
Chemical Engineering Assistant Professor Brian Chaplin receives NSF CAREER Award entitled "Development of Reactive Electrochemical Membranes for Sustainable Water Treatment Applications: An Integrated Research and Education Plan".











February 25, 2015
Associate Professor Vikas Berry joins the Department of Chemical Engineering. Berry Research Lab studies the electrical, structural, and chemical properties of innovatively designed nano- and bio- materials to enable the development of the next-generation-applications in biomedicine, electronics and nano mechanics.











January 26, 2015
Dennis O’Brien Joins Industrial Advisory Board.











January 26, 2015
Assistant Professor Brian Chaplin joins the Department of Chemical Engineering. The focus areas of Chaplin Labs are Environmental Chemistry and Water Treatment.











January 22, 2015
ChemE major Raine Fisher, along with a dozen other ChemE majors, participated in the College’s Guaranteed Paid Internship Program the summer following their first year of UIC classes. The program is now in its second year. Read about Raine’s experience here.











January 20, 2015
New Scholarship Program: UIC Chemical Engineering Department Receives $599,766 NSF S-STEM Grant to Increase Enrollment of Women in Chemical Engineering











 












 
Connect With Us 
 
 

   
    
  312-996-0808

Quick Links





Internal Links



 
Make a Gift
 
 







  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















