
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift 


 


 
ACADEMICS

Prospective Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
ChemE Minor
Special Programs


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
AIChE
GrACE
Study Abroad
Career Center
Student Awards
Student Resources
Updates


RESEARCH

Research Labs & Focus Areas
Laboratory Safety


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Faculty Awards
Alumni
Current Graduate Students


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Events
Seminars
News Archive
Open positions
Give to ChemE
Contact Us






 



















 




























































  










					Che Internal Links				




Che Internal Links











FORMS
EMPLOYEE REIMBURSEMENTS

FACULTY & STAFF

HUMAN RESOURCES


MAIN OFFICE

LINKS TO OTHER FORMS






LABORATORY SAFETY
“Awareness is the single most fundamental rule of chemical safety.” Department of Chemical Engineering at University of Illinois at Chicago is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment for its students, staff, and faculty. The university requires its students, staff, and faculty to adhere to basic laboratory safety rules and guidelines with regards to the safe handling and use of chemicals, bio-hazardous materials, radioactive materials, and laboratory equipment.
* : All the students, staff and faculty members participating in laboratory research/work must obtain laboratory safety training and acquire a laboratory safety training certificate (renewed annually) before starting any laboratory work. One copy of the certificate must be submitted to the main office and one to the laboratory PI; and one copy must be secured in a drawer or shelf in the laboratory designated for maintaining laboratory personnel certificates.
* : This link consists of several laboratory safety documents.
* : Every laboratory must maintain an accessible Laboratory Safety Plan Document. 
* : All laboratories using chemical, physical, or biological hazards (“wet” labs) should use the linked checklist to conduct a self-audit before commencing laboratory work to ensure safe handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials.
*
*Safety Seminar: The department will organize atleast one safety seminar every year. While attending the seminar will be a requirement for several students, others (students, staff and faculty members) are highly encouraged to attend this safety seminar.
*
Department Safety Officer

Jan Sagun Room 105 CEB,810 S Clinton Street Chicago, IL 60607 (312)996-3424 





SAFETY AND CHEMICAL ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROGRAM
The  program,initiated in 1992, is a cooperative effort between the Center for Chemical Process Safety (CCPS) and engineering schools to provide teaching materials and programs that bring elements of process safety into the education of undergraduate and graduate students studying chemical and biochemical products and processes. SaChe Student Safety Certificate Program A  is presented by  and  to students who demonstrate proficiency in process safety training modules developed for SaChE. The program allows students to receive recognition for their efforts provided they are members of AIChE. To access these materials, please contact the  for the student password. 




AICHE- CODE OF ETHICS
(Revised January 17, 2003) Members of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers shall uphold and advance the integrity, honor and dignity of the engineering profession by: being honest and impartial and serving with fidelity their employers, their clients, and the public; striving to increase the competence and prestige of the engineering profession; and using their knowledge and skill for the enhancement of human welfare. To achieve these goals, members shall

Hold paramount the safety, health and welfare of the public and protect the environment in performance of their professional duties.
Formally advise their employers or clients (and consider further disclosure, if warranted) if they perceive that a consequence of their duties will adversely affect the present or future health or safety of their colleagues or the public.
Accept responsibility for their actions, seek and heed critical review of their work and offer objective criticism of the work of others.
Issue statements or present information only in an objective and truthful manner.
Act in professional matters for each employer or client as faithful agents or trustees, avoiding conflicts of interest and never breaching confidentiality.
Treat fairly and respectfully all colleagues and co-workers, recognizing their unique contributions and capabilities.
Perform professional services only in areas of their competence.
Build their professional reputations on the merits of their services.
Continue their professional development throughout their careers, and provide opportunities for the professional development of those under their supervision.
Never tolerate harassment.
Conduct themselves in a fair, honorable and respectful manner.

 Copyright © 2008 American Institute of Chemical Engineers | All rights reserved | 


 












 
Connect With Us 
 
 

   
    
  312-996-0808

Quick Links





Internal Links



 
Make a Gift
 
 







  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















