
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Minor in Environmental Engineering
Minor in Materials Engineering


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Student Organizations

ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers)
Engineers Without Borders (EWB)
Institute of Transportation Engineers
NSBE (National Society of Black Engineers)
SWE (Society of Women Engineers)
SHPE (Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers)
Structural Engineers Association Of Illinois (SEAOI)
Tau Beta Pi (Engineering Honors Society)


CME Job Board
Career Center
Living in the City


RESEARCH

Research Labs
Environmental Science (IESP)
Urban Transportation (UTC)


PEOPLE

Faculty & Staff
CEPAC
Alumni
Faculty Awards
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
ABET Accreditation
Seminars
Events
Newsletter
News Archive
Contact Us






 


















 



































































  








					Living in the City				




Living in the City











Chicago is a world-class city known for its cultural diversity. The city has one of the world’s most iconic skylines, more than 25 miles of beautiful beaches along Lake Michigan, and an abundance of shopping in its vibrant downtown and throughout its 77 neighborhoods. As America’s third-largest city, Chicago has some of the world’s best museums, innovative and accessible art, eclectic music and theater scenes, and diverse dining choices. Its cultural offerings are second to none.
For the sports enthusiast, the city has several professional sports teams. The Blackhawks in the NHL, the Bears in the NFL, Bulls in the NBA, Fire in the MLS, and the White Sox and Cubs in the MLB.
The Chicago Marathon has been held each year since 1977 except for 1987, when a half marathon was run in its place. The Chicago Marathon is one of six World Marathon Majors, and attracts runners from around the world.
The University of Illinois at Chicago is Chicago’s research university. The campus is located in the heart of the city, just west of the Loop, and it is readily accessible by car, train, plane, bus, bike or on foot. UIC provides access to a vast network of expressways, parking, public transit and other transportation options to save money and reduce stress.
The greater Chicago area is home to many small and large-scale industries, and the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering has strong relationships with these companies and institutions, which present numerous opportunities for internships and full-time employment.
Learn more about life in Chicago and what it has to offer students and faculty throughout the year 







 











 
Connect With Us 
 
    
  (312) 996-2426

Quick Links





 
Make a Gift
RESOURCES





 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















