
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  Make a Gift


 
ACADEMICS

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies

ABET Accreditation


Graduate Studies
Courses


STUDENT LIFE

Scholarships
Career Center
Current Students
Student Organizations


RESEARCH

Mechanical Engineering Labs
Industrial Engineering Labs
Seminars


PEOPLE

Faculty
Staff
Industrial Advisory Board
Alumni
Open Positions


ABOUT US

Our Department
News
Contact Us
Living in Chicago






 


















 























































  








					Testimonials				




Testimonials













IE Testimonials


 “On one of my first college visits, I was introduced to a couple professors and I felt their genuine care and interest unlike anything I had experienced at my other college visits. The IE curriculum has been crafted to touch every aspect of what IEs do in the real world. Whether you want to get into manufacturing or management consulting, UIC is going to prepare you with your IE degree.” Elnaz Douzali, IE Student, Class of 2018 “I landed my dream job! UIC definitely prepared me for the working world. I think seeing the hard work that our professors and TA’s put in day after day was a great example of dedication and what to expect. The working world is not easy, but I think being at UIC made it easier for me.” Emily Banchs, Class of 2016, Consulting Analyst at Accenture“At UIC I learned the skills I needed to land my dream job with a large multinational corporation. Practical course work and challenging projects helped hone my technical skills. At the same time, I took advantage of campus programs and student organizations, which built my confidence and leadership skills, and gave me exposure to many other great companies. Without this experience I wouldn’t have had the opportunity to travel the world, working in a field that I enjoy.”Ryan Warner, Class 2015, Production Supervisor at Siemens USA“UIC has a great engineering program and connections with the biggest companies in Chicago. Being this close to the big companies, gives UIC engineering students the upper hand of students from [other universities]. This gives us better choices and opportunities for internships, which is one of the most valuable things you will do in your undergrad. Opportunities are endless.”Brittany Salin, Class of 2015, Continuous Improvement Engineer at Mars Chocolate



ME Testimonials


“It is the best engineering research university in Chicago. I knew I wanted to move and live in Chicago given the amount of resources available. To me, having internships, co-ops, and a plethora of knowledgeable people within close proximity is invaluable. Also, it has an impressive amount of ethnic diversity on campus. As a first generation minority, it is very relieving to know that I can confide in many of my peers who are facing the same pressures and struggles that many minorities go through.”Michael Pham, Class of 2018, ME Student“I like UIC a lot. Engineering is about applying your knowledge to create things, and making something to put on the market. It’s not just about talking. You learn to make something that works.”Sin-Pui Fu, Class of 2016, Owner of Innovation Lab“UIC prepared me in various ways for the work-field. Each class equipped me with the knowledge to understand an array of problems and to be able to approach them with a step-by-step mentality, considering both pros and cons. The staff and faculty embraced me, year after year by guiding me with invaluable advice. I am very grateful for the student organizations … as they trained, equipped, and motivated me along the way by giving me hope and vision for who I could become.”Aracely Lara, Class of 2015, Engineer at Underwriters Laboratories “I chose to earn my degree in Mechanical Engineering from UIC because of its commitment to diversity and its wide breadth of resources available to engineering students. It was also important to me to live in a city that is a central hub for engineering development. Being in Chicago made it easier for me to land internships and attend workshops critical to my career development.”Annie McDonnell, Class of 2010, Systems Engineer at Honeywell Aerospace 



 
Connect With Us 
 

   
  (312) 413-0447 

QUICK LINKS






INTERNAL LINKS




 
Make a Gift
 
 






  |   
© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Policy















