
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  & College of Medicine Make a Gift


 
Academics

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
Special Programs

BS/MS Track
Clinical Immersion Program
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program
Medical Scientist Training Program
Pre-Med
Senior Design




Student Life

Scholarships
Study Abroad
Student Awards
Student Jobs
Career Center
Student Organizations

Alpha  Eta  Mu  Beta
Bioengineering Graduate Society
Biomedical Engineering Society
Engineering World Health
Graduate Student Council
Society of Women Engineers
UBSJ




Research

Research Labs & Focus Areas


People

People
Core Faculty & Staff
Affiliate Faculty
Faculty Awards
Faculty Jobs
Alumni Connection


About Us

About Us
ABET Accreditation
Events & Seminars
News Center

Annual Report
Newsletter
News Center


Make a Gift
Directions
Contact Us






 


















 

















































































  








					Future Students				




Future Students











The mission of the Richard and Loan Hill Department of Bioengineering is to create an environment where its students can learn the principles of safely applying engineering technology to living systems. The interdisciplinary course of study provides a thorough understanding of engineering, physical science and biological principles that will prepare its graduates for careers in the biomedical industry, admission to top graduate programs, and acceptance in a variety of professional schools (medicine, dentistry, nursing and pharmacy). The UIC Department of Bioengineering has unique resources because of its close affiliation with the clinical and research programs of the University of Illinois Medical Center at Chicago and the opportunities to intern at major biomedical manufacturers (Abbott, Baxter, Biomet, General Electric, and Siemens, for example) in the Chicago and northwest Indiana areas. Students can easily work at facilities on campus or in the adjoining Illinois Technology Park. Senior design projects, co-op assignments, or academic year internships can also be conducted in Chicagoland biomedical industries.




RESEARCH FOCUS AREAS





Bioinformatics
Biomaterials
Biomechanics
Biomedical Imaging
Biomedical Implants





Biomolecular Engineering
Bionanotechnology
Biostatistics
Cell & Tissue Engineering
Computational Modelling





Medical Devices
Microtechnology
Neural Engineering
Ophthalmology
Rehabilitation Engineering










UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES




A bachelor’s degree in Bioengineering and Bioinformatics* from UIC prepares you for a variety of occupations, graduate programs, and professional programs. Students complete a challenging selection of courses chosen to provide a broad understanding of engineering and biology. Opportunities for independent study are common, and each senior participates in a one year senior design project.
* Pending UIC Approval
I. Program Requirements
A. Concentration Areas – All students must choose one


Bioinformatics


 An interdisciplinary field that combines computer science and statistical methods with an understanding of molecular biology to provide an understanding of the structure and function of gene products, the regulation of gene expression, and the network of molecular interactions that have direct impact on the function of all living things.  The capstone lecture course for this concentration area are: 
BIOE 480. Introduction to Bioinformatics. 3 or 4 hours. Computational analysis of genomic sequences and other high throughput data. Sequence alignment, dynamic programming, database search, protein motifs, cDNA expression array, and structural bioinformatics. Course Information: 3 undergraduate hours. 4 graduate hours. Prerequisite(s): BIOS 100 and CS 109.
BIOE 481. Bioinformatics Laboratory. 2 hours. How to use bioinformatics tools, including sequence alignment methods such as Blast, Fasta, and Pfam, as well as structural bioinformatics tools, such as Rasmol and CastP. Course Information: Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): Credit or concurrent registration in BIOE 480; and senior standing or above; and consent of the instructor.


Biomedical Imaging


 Biomedical imaging traditionally has included optical, X-ray, magnetic resonance, ultrasound, computed tomographic and nuclear imaging methods. Students will learn the science and engineering that enable these imaging modalities and will have the opportunity to focus on specific techniques and explore cutting edge developments, taught by recognized leaders in the field. Hands-on laboratory experience complements classroom instruction.    The capstone lecture course for this concentration area are: 
BIOE 421. Biomedical Imaging. 3 or 4 hours. Introduction to engineering and scientific principles associated with X-ray, magnetic resonance, ultrasound, computed tomographic and nuclear imaging. Course Information: 3 undergraduate hours. 4 graduate hours. Extensive computer use required. Prerequisite(s): MATH 210 and PHYS 142.
BIOE 423 (494 temporarily). Biomedical Imaging Lab. 2 hours. Hands-on sessions in acquisition and processing of biomedical imaging data. The imaging modalities covered are relaxation time-based MRI, motion sensitive MRI, X-ray computed tomography, Ultrasound and Optical Methods. Prerequisite(s): Credit or concurrent registration in BIOE 421.


Cell & Tissue Engineering


 Tissue engineers combine the principles and methods of engineering and biology to develop biological constructs that are the basis of a future regenerative medicine. To accomplish this goal tissue engineers combine cells, biological growth factors, and scaffolding materials based to create nascent biological structures that can restore a biological function, such as insulin production, or stimulate the body to regenerate the tissue such as the repair of damaged articular cartilage.    The capstone lecture course for this concentration area are: 
BIOE 455. Introduction to Cell and Tissue Engineering. 3 or 4 hours. Foundation of cell and tissue engineering covering cell technology, construct technology, and cell-substrate interactions. Emphasis in emerging trends and technologies in tissue engineering. Course Information: 3 undergraduate hours. 4 graduate hours. Prerequisite(s): CME 260; and BIOS 443 or BIOS 452.
BIOE 456. Cell and Tissue Engineering Laboratory. 2 hours. Includes polymer scaffold fabrication, microstamping biomolecules, cellular adhesion and proliferation assays, and immo/fluorescent tagging. Course Information: Prerequisite(s): Credit or concurrent registration in BIOE 455; or consent of the instructor.


Neural Engineering


 Computational and experimental models of artificial bioelectric interfaces are becoming vital to work in neural prosthetics, biosensors, and biological computing and are the basis for new neuro-prosthetic devices such as cochlear implants and progress toward a silicon retina. Neural engineers learn to characterize and manipulate neural tissue and to develop more effective interfaces for sensory and motor applications.  The capstone lecture course for this concentration area are: 
BIOE 475. Neural Engineering I: Introduction to Hybrid Neural Systems. 3 or 4 hours. Modeling and design of functional neural interfaces for in vivo and in vitro applications, electrodes and molecular coatings, neural prostheses and biopotential control of robotics. Course Information: Same as BIOS 475. 3 undergraduate hours. 4 graduate hours. Prerequisite(s): BIOE 472; or consent of the instructor.
BIOE 476. Neural Engineering I Laboratory. 2 hours. Hands-on experience with computational and experimental models of engineered neural systems, with emphasis on neuroprostheses and biosensors. Course Information: Animals used in instruction. Prerequisite(s): Credit or concurrent registration in BIOE 475.





 B. Degree Requirements 


Bioengineering Students - Fall 16 to Present







Bioinformatics Students - Fall 18


Degree Requirements – Pending UIC Approval






 C. Special Programs 










II. How to Apply
A. Entrance Requirement


B. Application Deadline

C. Financial Aid and Scholarship













GRADUATE STUDIES




The MS and PhD programs in Bioengineering and Bioinformatics provide training in the research and development of systems using engineering concepts and methods that apply modern technology to problems of living systems and health care. UIC Bioengineering also participates in the prestigious NIH-supported Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP), a competetive MD/PhD program providing 7 years of support for pursuit of MD and PhD degrees in a coordinated seamless experience with the UIC College of Medicine, home of the largest medical school in the country. Visit the MSTP Website for more details.
I. Program Requirements
A. BIOENGINEERING


MS Thesis/Non-Thesis


In addition to the  minimum requirements, students must meet the following program requirements: Minimum Semester Hours Required:
36 from Baccalaureate
Thesis Track:
At least 28 hours of coursework. At least 12 hours must be at the 500-level, excluding BIOE 595, 596, and BIOE 598. Limited credit hours in BIOE 596 (Independent Study) are allowed upon departmental approval. Students must earn at least 8 hours in BIOE 598 (Masters Thesis Research).
Coursework-only :
Students must earn 36 hours from coursework, with the addition that 16 of the 36 hours must be course offerings at the 500-level.
Required Courses:
1 hour of BIOE 595. Students without a BIOE or BME BS must take BIOE 421, 430 and 460. See  for more info.
Other Requirements:
Each student must present at least one seminar (BIOE 595)  prior to graduation.
Comprehensive Examination:
None
For more information email  


PhD


In addition to the  minimum requirements, students must meet the following program requirements: Minimum Semester Hours Required:
108 from Baccalaureate
Coursework:
Students admitted with a prior Master’s degree in BioE or a related field must complete a minimum of 24 hours of coursework, at least 12 hours of which must be Bioengineering courses. At least 12 hours must be at the 500-level, excluding BIOE 595, 596, 599. A maximum of 4 hours of BIOE 590 may be applied toward the degree, provided credit for BIOE 590 or a similar course was not applied toward the prior MS degree.
Students admitted with a Bachelor’s degree in BioE or a related field must complete a minimum of 48 hours of coursework. At least 24 hours must be Bioengineering courses. At least 20 hours must be at the 500-level, excluding BIOE 595, 596, 599. A maximum of 4 hours of BIOE 590 may be applied toward the degree.
Required Courses:
1 hour of BIOE 595. Additional required courses vary by area; contact the department for the specific requirements of each area. See  for more information.
Comprehensive Examination:
Preliminary Examination: Required
Dissertation :
Required. Students must earn at least 60 semester hours in BIOE 599.
Other Requirements: 
Each student is required to present at least one seminar (BIOE 595) prior to graduation.
Students must be registered during the semester of intended graduation.
For more information email    





B. BIOINFORMATICS


MS Thesis/Non-Thesis


In addition to the  minimum requirements, students must meet the following program requirements: Minimum Semester Hours Required:
36 from Baccalaureate
Thesis Track:
At least 28 hours of coursework. At least 12 hours must be at the 500-level, excluding BIOE 595, 596, and BIOE 598. Limited credit hours in BIOE 596(Independent Study) are allowed upon departmental approval. Students must earn at least 8 hours in BIOE 598 (Masters Thesis Research).
Coursework-only :
Students must earn 36 hours from coursework only with the addition that 16 of the 36 hours must be BIOE course offerings at the 500-level.
Required Courses:
1 hour of BIOE 595. All student must take BIOE 480, 481 and 530. See  for more info.
Comprehensive Examination:
None
Other Requirements:
Each student must present at least one seminar prior to graduation.
For more information email  


PhD


In addition to the  minimum requirements, students must meet the following program requirements: Minimum Semester Hours Required:
108 from Baccalaureate
Coursework:
Students admitted with a prior Master’s degree in BioE or a related field must complete a minimum of 24 hours of coursework, at least 12 hours of which must be Bioengineering courses. At least 12 hours must be at the 500-level, excluding BIOE 595, 596, 599. A maximum of 4 hours of BIOE 590 may be applied toward the degree, provided credit for BIOE 590 or a similar course was not applied toward the prior MS degree.
Students admitted with a Bachelor’s degree in BioE or a related field must complete a minimum of 48 hours of coursework. At least 32 hours must be Bioengineering courses. At least 20 hours must be at the 500-level, excluding BIOE 595, 596, 599. A maximum of 4 hours of BIOE 590 may be applied toward the degree.
Required Courses:
1 hour of BIOE 595.  See  for more information on requirements.
Comprehensive Examination:
Departmental Qualifying Examination: Required Preliminary Examination: Required
Dissertation :
Required. Students must earn at least 60 semester hours in BIOE 599 (PhD Thesis Research).
Other Requirements: 
Each student is required to present at least one seminar (BIOE 595) prior to graduation.
Students must be registered during the semester of intended graduation.
For more information email    





I. How to Apply
A. Admission Requirement


Graduate Program


 Applications are considered individually by the Graduate Program Admissions Committee. A completed admissions application and transcripts of all previous undergraduate and graduate work is required. The requirements of the Office of Admissions and Records must be met in addition to the following departmental requirements Baccalaureate Field:
Physical or life sciences, engineering, computer science, mathematics, biology, or pre-medicine. Required to have completed Calculus 1-3, Differential Equations, and Linear Algebra.
Grade Point Average:
Minimum 3.0 (A=4.0) for final 60 semester or 90 quarter hours of undergraduate study
Tests Required: (ETS institution code: 1851, no department code required)
GRE general, quantitative reasoning percentile rank above 50% GRE waived for applicants to the MS Bioengineering program only
No subject test required
Minimum English Competency Test Score:
TOEFL 80, with subscores of Reading 19, Listening 17, Speaking 20, and Writing 21 (iBT Internet-based)
OR
IELTS 6.5, with subscores of 6.0 for all four subscores
Recommendation Letters:
3 required
Personal Statement:
Required





 B. Application Deadline The Bioengineering & Bioinformatics graduate degree program admits to the Fall term only.
January 15 – Department application deadline
December 1 – Recommended deadline for fellowship consideration
C. Graduate Admissions

D. Fellowship & Financial Aid





 











 

Connect With Us 
 
   
    312 996 2335  
   312 996 5921

Quick Links




 
Make a Gift
Internal Links





 
 






 | © Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


















