
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  & College of Medicine Make a Gift


 
Academics

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
Special Programs

BS/MS Track
Clinical Immersion Program
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program
Medical Scientist Training Program
Pre-Med
Senior Design




Student Life

Scholarships
Study Abroad
Student Awards
Student Jobs
Career Center
Student Organizations

Alpha  Eta  Mu  Beta
Bioengineering Graduate Society
Biomedical Engineering Society
Engineering World Health
Graduate Student Council
Society of Women Engineers
UBSJ




Research

Research Labs & Focus Areas


People

People
Core Faculty & Staff
Affiliate Faculty
Faculty Awards
Faculty Jobs
Alumni Connection


About Us

About Us
ABET Accreditation
Events & Seminars
News Center

Annual Report
Newsletter
News Center


Make a Gift
Directions
Contact Us






 


















 

















































































  








					BS/MS Track				




BS/MS Track








Bioengineering majors interested in industry, academia or professional school should consider a Master’s degree. The accelerated BS/MS track is essentially a program to make the most of existing opportunities in the Bioengineering department.*

This accelerated track benefits UIC Bioengineering undergraduate students. The time to the MS degree can be significantly shortened, often to only two semesters beyond completion of the BS.
THE GENERAL PLAN
The first step is to begin the MS thesis research while completing the BS. This synergy is possible, especially with regards to BIOE 398 – Undergraduate Research, BIOE 396/397 – Senior Design I & II, or internship activities.

With senior activities aligned towards research, the Master’s thesis can progress rapidly, and can often be completed within one year.

The MS in Bioengineering requires 28 credit hours of course work, of which 12 hours must be at the 500-level.

BS/MS students are encouraged to take up to 9 hours of graduate-level courses (400- and 500-level) in addition to their BS requirements.

These 9 hours will transfer toward the MS degree requirements, leaving 19 credit hours (about 5 courses) to be taken while enrolled in the MS program. These remaining courses can be completed in one year.
WHEN TO APPLY
Students should follow the standard application procedures for the MS in Bioengineering (see Application Deadlines below). Interested students should discuss the opportunities for MS thesis research with the undergraduate research sponsor as early as possible.
ADMISSIONS PROCEDURES
1. Complete M.S. application through the Office of Admissions
2. Submit GRE scores** to UIC (Institutional Code is 1851)
3. Have three letters of recommendation sent directly to Bioengineering department
4. Submit a personal statement to the Bioengineering department

* It is the responsibility of the student to discuss the potential for MS thesis research with the faculty advisor of the undergraduate project. Participation in MS thesis research is dependent upon satisfactory performance during the undergraduate activity. Students and faculty project advisors are encouraged to develop a formal list of expectations (deliverables, reporting, background knowledge, etc.) which can be used to evaluate student performance.
** In cases of exceptionally qualified students, the requirement for GRE scores may be waived. 

Questions? Email gradbioe@uic.edu
 











 

Connect With Us 
 
   
    312 996 2335  
   312 996 5921

Quick Links




 
Make a Gift
Internal Links





 
 






 | © Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


















