
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  & College of Medicine Make a Gift


 
Academics

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
Special Programs

BS/MS Track
Clinical Immersion Program
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program
Medical Scientist Training Program
Pre-Med
Senior Design




Student Life

Scholarships
Study Abroad
Student Awards
Student Jobs
Career Center
Student Organizations

Alpha  Eta  Mu  Beta
Bioengineering Graduate Society
Biomedical Engineering Society
Engineering World Health
Graduate Student Council
Society of Women Engineers
UBSJ




Research

Research Labs & Focus Areas


People

People
Core Faculty & Staff
Affiliate Faculty
Faculty Awards
Faculty Jobs
Alumni Connection


About Us

About Us
ABET Accreditation
Events & Seminars
News Center

Annual Report
Newsletter
News Center


Make a Gift
Directions
Contact Us






 


















 

















































































  








					UBSJ				




UBSJ











1ST SUBMISSION DEADLINE: TBA

 UIC Bioengineering Student Journal information is available on your site. Simply log on, go to “Courses” then BIOEJOURNAL . For more info or if journal link is not available when you log on to , email  bioejour@uic.edu
 
RELEASES
Vol. 9 No 1 Spring 2018 Undergraduate Edition ( ) – LATEST RELEASE
 Vol. 9 No 1 Spring 2018 Graduate Edition ( ) – LATEST RELEASE
 Vol. 8 No 1 Spring 2017 ( )
 Vol. 7 No 1 Spring 2016 ( )
 Vol. 6 No 1 Spring 2015 ( )
 Vol. 5 No 1 Spring 2014 )
 Vol. 4 No 1 Spring 2013 ( )
 Vol. 3 No 2 Spring 2012 ( )
 Vol. 3 No 1 Fall 2011 ( )
 Vol. 2 No 1 Spring 2010 ( )
 Vol. 1 No 1 Fall 2008 ( )
ISSN numbers

UIC bioengineering student journal (Online): ISSN 2329-5341
 UIC bioengineering student journal (Print): ISSN 2329-5333

SIGN UP TO PARTICIPATE
Please LOGINif you are interested in participating in writing or reviewing for the journal.
 
UBSJ EDITORS’ BOOK OF THE MONTH CLUB


April 2014: Better: A Surgeon’s Notes on Performance


In his book that manages to cover such varied and controversial topics as lethal injection, malpractice lawsuits, and the surgical accidents that lead to such lawsuits, Atul Gawande manages to be both humble and frank. The reader is taken on a journey exploring the process of sanitation: from the management of battlefield wounds, to how the simple act of hand-washing revolutionized the management of disease inside hospitals themselves. Gawande addresses patient comfort during intimate physical exams, and the ways that doctors make them feel safe and protect their own legal interests at the same time. All in all, Better is a captivating and educational read, perfect for your summer reading list. – Cierra Hall, Editor UIC Bioengineering Student Journal


October 2013: Song of the Dodo


What is evolution? If you answered “survival of the fittest,” you’re not wrong, but there are many more factors involved. Studying islands is one of the best ways to learn about evolution, and island biogeography is the science of understanding what plants and animals exist on which islands, why, and why not in other areas. The entire planet can be thought of as a group of islands – from the obvious ones, like Madagascar, to the more discreet ones, like a forest preserve surrounded by skyscrapers. Thus, studying the ecology of islands is the most efficient way to learn how life evolves in all corners of the planet. In Quammen’s highly rated book The Song of the Dodo, learn how the idea of evolution began (and why Charles Darwin shouldn’t get all the credit), how islands can cause some species to go extinct and others to multiply exponentially, and become more well-versed in natural history in general. Full of examples of creatures that sound like they came from a sci-fi movie, this book can be enjoyed by anyone with an interest in the world around them.View Cover


September 2013: The Selfish Gene


Having already celebrated its 30th anniversary, The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins remains one of the most potent and controversial books in print today. In his seminal publishing, Sir Richard Dawkins explores the realm of evolution from the gene’s perspective. Originally published in 1976, this book employs plain language to describe the plight of the gene and its desire for selfpreservation. It follows that the gene should “act” preferentially towards similar genes and thus, through selfishness, become altruistic, ultimately working towards a stability regime for the gene. It is this notion that the gene would behave to further its own duplication rather than that of the whole organism which drives the central theme of the book. Often heralded as a masterpiece, The Selfish Gene weaves a tale of logic and perspective that is as insightful today as it was 37 years ago.


June 2013: Genome: An Autobiography Of A Species in 23 Chapters


Written just a few years before the Human Genome Project was completed, Genome takes the reader through an informal and yet informative journey through major genetic landmarks on each of the 23 human chromosomes. Ridley shares information about gene evolution, theories of gene competition and genetic implications for disease. Starting with the origins of life and continuing to modern day genetic screening, the book even covers the topic of genetic determinism and free will.


May 2013: Cutting for Stone


Verghese’s novel is a fictional emotional journey into the lives of those touched by both poverty and medicine, and follows the story of the children of Thomas Stone, an expatriate surgeon, and the Carmelite nun that was his assistant. Marion Stone and his twin brother Shiva were separated at birth after being born conjoined, but remain mentally and emotionally entwined throughout their lives. Their search for their father and pursuit of the medical profession both deeply connects them and separates them at the same time.View Cover


April 2013: The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer


Siddhartha Mukherjee, an Indian-born American physician and oncologist, gives a riveting comprehensive biography of the history of cancer and how our treatment of that vast umbrella of diseases has been propelled by our ever-evolving knowledge. From the writings of Egyptian physician Imhotep, to the evolution of breast cancer related surgery, to attempting to determine when how much chemotherapy is too much, Mukherjee’s book explains the events in the long progression of gradual understanding of what cancer is, how it is possibly caused, and how to treat it. View Cover


March 2013: The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks by Rebecca Skloot


HeLa cells are named after Henrietta Lacks, a poor black tobacco farmer born in 1920. Her cells became one of most important tools for the development of early cell culture, for the initial development of vaccines including the polio vaccine, and for many other critical uses in medicine. Billions of her tenacious cells have been distributed freely, bought and sold, and experimented on, but not only was Henrietta not acknowledged for her contribution until recently, but the samples were taken without her knowledge and without any benefit to her family. This story chronicles the history of He La cells, Henrietta Lacks’ life, and some of the tougher ethical questions involved in biomedical research. View Cover


 











 

Connect With Us 
 
   
    312 996 2335  
   312 996 5921

Quick Links




 
Make a Gift
Internal Links





 
 






 | © Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


















