
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  & College of Medicine Make a Gift


 
Academics

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
Special Programs

BS/MS Track
Clinical Immersion Program
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program
Medical Scientist Training Program
Pre-Med
Senior Design




Student Life

Scholarships
Study Abroad
Student Awards
Student Jobs
Career Center
Student Organizations

Alpha  Eta  Mu  Beta
Bioengineering Graduate Society
Biomedical Engineering Society
Engineering World Health
Graduate Student Council
Society of Women Engineers
UBSJ




Research

Research Labs & Focus Areas


People

People
Core Faculty & Staff
Affiliate Faculty
Faculty Awards
Faculty Jobs
Alumni Connection


About Us

About Us
ABET Accreditation
Events & Seminars
News Center

Annual Report
Newsletter
News Center


Make a Gift
Directions
Contact Us






 


















 

















































































  








					Bioinformatics				




Bioinformatics








Bachelor of Science Degree in Bioinformatics to be launched Fall 2019 semester





We are proud to announce that, in partnership with UIC’s Department of Computer Science, we will launch a new Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Degree program in Bioinformatics Fall of 2019 semester.









The Beginnings 







 In 2003, UIC Bioengineering was the first in Illinois and one of the first in the nation to establish Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degree programs in Bioinformatics. This was led by University Distinguished Professor Richard L. Magin, who was department head at that time, and Hill Professor Jie Liang, lead faculty member for the Bioinformatics group in our department. 



















About Bioinformatics 







 Bioinformatics is an interdisciplinary field that develops methods and computing tools for understanding biological data. As an interdisciplinary field of science, bioinformatics combines computer science, statistics, mathematics and engineering to analyze and interpret biological data. Bioinformatics is routinely used in sequencing and annotating genomes and their observed mutations, analysis of gene and protein expression and regulation and prediction of biomolecular structure, and simulation and modeling of interactions of DNA, RNA and proteins. Bioinformatics also plays fundamental roles in analyzing and cataloging the biological pathways and networks in systems biology and is extremely importantly in developing personalized medicine. 













About B.S. program 







 The new B.S. program in Bioinformatics will provide high-quality, comprehensive bioinformatics undergraduate training. The program, housed in the Richard and Loan Hill Department of Bioengineering, will be supported by the research and educational expertise from both the Department of Bioengineering and the Department of Computer Science. The synergistic integration and building upon existing programs in the two departments allows the college to offer a unique Bioinformatics undergraduate education that is responsive to growing job opportunities linked to personalized medicine and healthcare. The program will provide students with a well-rounded, interdisciplinary curriculum. The goal of the curriculum is to train students to develop innovative methods and technologies in the field of bioinformatics in order to solve problems and to create new knowledge.  Students will be prepared with quantitative skills at the interface of biology, computer science, chemistry, and mathematics. 














How to Apply 







 Students can apply for enrollment in the current Bioengineering program and declare their concentration area specialization as Bioinformatics. This option has been a part of the Bioengineering undergraduate degree program since 2003. Once the new B.S. in Bioinformatics degree program is formally launched these students will be given the option to immediately switch over to the new degree program, which will have the same course requirements as Bioengineering for the first year of the curriculum. 


APPLY NOW 











 

Connect With Us 
 
   
    312 996 2335  
   312 996 5921

Quick Links




 
Make a Gift
Internal Links





 
 






 | © Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


















