


















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  & College of Medicine Make a Gift


 
Academics

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
Special Programs

BS/MS Track
Clinical Immersion Program
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program
Medical Scientist Training Program
Pre-Med
Senior Design




Student Life

Scholarships
Study Abroad
Student Awards
Student Jobs
Career Center
Student Organizations

Alpha  Eta  Mu  Beta
Bioengineering Graduate Society
Biomedical Engineering Society
Engineering World Health
Graduate Student Council
Society of Women Engineers
UBSJ




Research

Research Labs & Focus Areas


People

People
Core Faculty & Staff
Affiliate Faculty
Faculty Awards
Faculty Jobs
Alumni Connection


About Us

About Us
ABET Accreditation
Events & Seminars
News Center

Annual Report
Newsletter
News Center


Make a Gift
Directions
Contact Us






 


















 

















































































  








					Jie Liang, PhD				

					Richard & Loan Hill Professor				











 


312-355-1789










Bio

Contact Information:
UIC Bioengineering (MC 563)
820 S Wood St, W103 CSN
Chicago, IL 60612
Office: CSN 164J
Lab Location: MSB E603
Lab Website: 
Computation Server: 
Research: Dr. Jie Liang leads the Molecular and Systems Computational Bioengineering Lab -MoSCoBL in the Bioengineering Department at the University of Illinois at Chicago. This lab is equipped with a 64-bit Linux clusters with 36 node, each containing dual AMD Opteron CPUs with dual core, with a combined 144 cores availalbe for computation. All nodes are under adequate UPS power management. In addition, this lab is equipped with 4 fast linux quad-core application server machines, each equipped with 8G memory. This linux cluster is supported by a RAID array with multi-terabyte storage space, and is housed in a separate air-conditioned room. This linux cluster and the server machines will be made available for the training activities.
In addition to specific application software developed at UIC, numerous computing packages are currently running on this Linux environment, including Splus/R, Matlab, Lapack, Arpack, linear programming packages, VMD, molscript, raster3D, Mesa, -OpenGL, Rasmol/Chime, Hmmer2, clustalX, Fasta, Blast, HMM and many other bioinformatics packages.
Complementing the hardware and software array is an accomplished contingent of technical support team from the Advanced Computing and Communications Center that is currently under assembly to support research activities of the -MoSCoBL.
 













 

Connect With Us 
 
   
    312 996 2335  
   312 996 5921

Quick Links




 
Make a Gift
Internal Links





 
 






 | © Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


















