
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  & College of Medicine Make a Gift


 
Academics

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
Special Programs

BS/MS Track
Clinical Immersion Program
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program
Medical Scientist Training Program
Pre-Med
Senior Design




Student Life

Scholarships
Study Abroad
Student Awards
Student Jobs
Career Center
Student Organizations

Alpha  Eta  Mu  Beta
Bioengineering Graduate Society
Biomedical Engineering Society
Engineering World Health
Graduate Student Council
Society of Women Engineers
UBSJ




Research

Research Labs & Focus Areas


People

People
Core Faculty & Staff
Affiliate Faculty
Faculty Awards
Faculty Jobs
Alumni Connection


About Us

About Us
ABET Accreditation
Events & Seminars
News Center

Annual Report
Newsletter
News Center


Make a Gift
Directions
Contact Us






 


















 

















































































  








					Purchasing & Reimbursements				




Purchasing & Reimbursements











 Important notice: Effective January 1, 2018, only travel reimbursements are allowed. Laboratory and miscellaneous purchases must be made via iBuy or P-Card, or with prior permission of the department. Please email bioepay@uic.edu prior to any purchase to avoid non-compliance and reimbursement rejection.  




Purchases

You must email bioepay@uic.edu before making your first purchase or if you are uncertain about a purchase.





Forms

 – required to use  to get reimbursed (form best viewed with  or Internet Explorer).


 – required for department lab shipping requests (form best viewed with  or Internet Explorer).


 – required to purchase software on P-Card (form best viewed with  or Internet Explorer).


 – required to purchase electronic services (e.g: dropbox, webhosting) on P-Card (form best viewed with  or Internet Explorer).






T-Card Procedures

Restricted T-Card Purchases – Travel Cards may be used for the following items if appropriate funding is available and the purchase conforms to University policies.


 – Administrative controls and/or legal requirements place limitations on the use of the Travel Card.






P-Card Procedures

Restricted P-Card Purchases – Purchasing Cards can be used for the following items when corresponding requirements are met and appropriate funding is available


Prohibited P-Card Purchases – Purchasing Cards may not be used for the following items.






Software/Electronic Services Purchases
Software purchases must have pre-approval* from the department so please email bioepay@uic.edu to begin. Most commonly used software is available at the . (*Webstore purchases do not require pre-approval, however, P-Cards are NOT allowed on Webstore; email bioepay@uic.edu if you have trouble making a purchase.)




University’s Amazon Business Account

How to Participate in the !



 











 

Connect With Us 
 
   
    312 996 2335  
   312 996 5921

Quick Links




 
Make a Gift
Internal Links





 
 






 | © Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


















