
















 


 University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering  & College of Medicine Make a Gift


 
Academics

Future Students
Undergraduate Studies
Graduate Studies
Courses
Special Programs

BS/MS Track
Clinical Immersion Program
Guaranteed Paid Internship Program
Medical Scientist Training Program
Pre-Med
Senior Design




Student Life

Scholarships
Study Abroad
Student Awards
Student Jobs
Career Center
Student Organizations

Alpha  Eta  Mu  Beta
Bioengineering Graduate Society
Biomedical Engineering Society
Engineering World Health
Graduate Student Council
Society of Women Engineers
UBSJ




Research

Research Labs & Focus Areas


People

People
Core Faculty & Staff
Affiliate Faculty
Faculty Awards
Faculty Jobs
Alumni Connection


About Us

About Us
ABET Accreditation
Events & Seminars
News Center

Annual Report
Newsletter
News Center


Make a Gift
Directions
Contact Us






 


















 

















































































  








					Student Organizations Guidelines				




Student Organizations Guidelines











 Student organizations that are overseen by the Bioengineering department or faculty should adhere to the guidelines below regarding department procedures. Organizations should work closely with their faculty advisors and any questions can be directed to bioe@uic.edu. 




Planning & Budget
Budget and funding must be arranged well in advance of any events. All BIOE student organizations are required to submit this form by 08/31 every academic year. See the form for detailed instructions.



Important Note: All student events require an attendance sheet. Please submit a list of attendees within 48 hours from the time of each event.





Room reservations
Find Bioengineering classroom availability at . Use the “” link to submit room reservation requests. Available rooms include: 





 East Campus
SEO 236 – multimedia classroom, seats 48
SEO 201 – multimedia classroom, seats 12
SEO 227 – THE PORTAL conference room, seats 12
SEL 4018 – B&M teaching lab, seats 32 (Note: Reservation requires pre-approval, email request to bioesupport@uic.edu)





 West Campus
CSN W103 – classroom, requires personal laptop, seats 12
NMRL 115 – multimedia classroom, seats 18





 Room reservations need to be made at least one week prior to any event. Due to space limitations, last-minute reservations cannot be accommodated. The Bioengineering staff cannot assist with room reservations outside of Bioengineering classrooms. 




Room access and usage policies
Reservations scheduled before or after office business hours (M-F 9am-5pm) are permitted, but board members will be responsible for arranging access to the room at least one week in advance. After the meeting, rooms must be cleaned and returned to its original configuration, all trash must be placed in the hallway receptacles, lights should be turned off and doors should be locked. 




Sending Announcements
Faculty advisor or President of the organization can contact bioe@uic.edu for access/updates to the Blackboard page for the student organization. Board members are responsible for obtaining approval from their faculty advisor prior to sending out announcements. 


 











 

Connect With Us 
 
   
    312 996 2335  
   312 996 5921

Quick Links




 
Make a Gift
Internal Links





 
 






 | © Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


















