




















 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Application Process









 




 





















Countdown to Commit
UIC Class of 2022


Days



Hours



Minutes



Seconds








Translations











































 








Before You Apply  

Start planning now.
Early preparation is the key to successfully beginning your journey at UIC.
Do your research. 
Learn all . Explore which  are a good fit for your goals. Find out about  options. The more you know, the easier it will be to navigate the application process.
Know your deadlines.
Keep track of all  that apply to you. Keep in mind, some programs and departments, such as GPPA and Honors College have their own deadlines.
Check your requirements.
Familiarize yourself with , including department, test, and course requirements, as soon as possible.
Begin essays and request recommendations.
Your application essay and recommendations are an opportunity to make your application stand out. Starting early ensures you and your recommenders have adequate time to meet deadlines.
 





Applying for Admission 

Ready to apply? Complete these steps.
Before submitting your application, make sure you check  for specific requirements based on how you are applying.
FIrst Year Applicants: complete the .
Transfer Applicants: complete the . 
Submit your application fees or application waiver.
Submit essays or letters of recommendation.
Have your transcripts sent.
Send in test scores.
 





After you apply 

Your application is in. What's next?
Check application status. 
You can check your  online. This is where you’ll find a checklist of items we’ve received and which items are still outstanding.
When you can expect to hear from us. 
You'll receive a decision by email or mail within the time frames below.
First Year applicants: 
October–MarchTransfer applicants:
Spring term: September–December
Fall term: February–May
Questions about your application? 



Contact us at (312) 996-4350
 





After Acceptance 

Congratulations, you're in! Now what? 
Follow this  to help you stay on track and take advantage of all UIC has to offer.
 










 







Already applied? Check your application status 








Related Resources

































 










Office of Admissions
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161  
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.
 


 






 





















Copyright © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois







 

T










Default
Default




Close





