
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					College Transfer Guides				




College Transfer Guides











Please utilize  — An online tool that will help you view course equivalencies and see how courses you have taken or plan to take transfer to UIC based on your academic major in the College of Engineering.
To look up course equivalency, go to .

1. Click on “Get Started!”
2. Create an account by entering your name, email address, and a password.
3. Sign in.
4. Enter the school name of the transfer institution for where you wish to take or have already taken a course.
5. Choose the term you wish to take or have already taken the course (e.g. Summer 2015).
6. Enter the department of the course (e.g. English, History, etc.).
7. Select the course that you believe would best match the one for which you want credit at UIC (based on course titles, and you can choose more than one); or select the course(s) you have already taken.
8. Click on “find schools that accept my coursework.”
9. Select “University of Illinois at Chicago,” if it shows up in the list of schools found.
10. A list of potential course matches will, then, appear. The transfer school’s course will be listed on the left side of the arrow and the UIC equivalent will be on the right.


 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















