 



































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu

































































































































Eyebrow menu




















UIC menu










Search the site














 



















Campus Housing
LIVE UIC











Whether you’re a new student applying to live on campus for your first year or during your doctorate, we have that will fit your needs.  Our on-campus and support will definitely help to set you up for success at UIC.






Call To Action










Apply for Housing










Get Involved












Academic Support


















Where to Live







Call To Action







            Future Residents
        









            Current Residents
        









            Conferences and Guests
        














The Academic and Residential Complex - opening Fall 2019
The University of Illinois at Chicago’s newest student housing community will be one of the leading edge mixed-use, live-learn student communities in the country, housing more than 550 students on the UIC campus. This project is a response to UIC’s record-setting Fall 2017 enrollment and reinforces the current growth strategy to support the recruitment, retention, and graduation of its students.
The community is being developed in partnership with American Campus Communities, with designs by Solomon Cordwell Buenz and general contractor Pepper/Brown Construction Company.















Interim Housing Application Now Available
Interim Housing allows residential students to stay on campus in between academic terms. Students may request a late departure after finals, an early arrival before the start of the spring term, or a full-period stay. Interim Housing for Fall-to-Spring is from 12:00 pm Saturday, December 15 through 10:00 am Saturday, January 12, 2019. The preferred interim application deadline is December 1.

































Future



















Current



















Affiliate


















Button Menu






















Contact
 818 S. Wolcott Ave., Suite 220, Chicago IL 60612
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















