









> > (revision 6)EditAttach  About IEEE @ UIC 

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers is the world's largest professional association dedicated to advancing technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity. IEEE and its members inspire a global community through IEEE's highly cited publications, conferences, technology standards and professional and educational activities.

We as the IEEE UIC Chapter strive to promote the engineering process of creating, developing, integrating, sharing and applying knowledge about electro and information technologies as well as sciences to benefit our local community.

IEEE is the leading developer of global standards in a broad range of industries. One of the standards it is best known for is the IEEE 802.11 Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) standard. Next time you're in the market for a wireless router, take a look at router box; you'll see the IEEE standard noted on the box.

If you ever have a chance to read through our professors' resumes you'll see that more than a few are IEEE fellows. An IEEE fellowship is the highest grade of membership attained through nomination by peers and approval by the IEEE Board of Directors for distinction in the profession. So we as a society are in good company to say the least.

Almost every leading university in the world that teaches electrical engineering has an IEEE student chapter. If you want to get a feeling of other IEEE Student Chapters check out our links page for select IEEE chapters around the world.

As a UIC student pursuing an engineering degree, you may apply for an IEEE student membership today.

You can also visit us by stopping by our office located in SEO, Office 1308.   

Edit | Attach | P | H:     r6     | B | R | Raw edit | More topic actions...Topic revision: r6 - 2015-02-04 - 21:21:27 - Main.mstrba2


 
 


 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  




   

 



 



















 








 










 








 












Copyright 2016 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois.
      



