




















 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Deadlines









 




 



























Graduate Level Program Deadlines 

The general graduate application submission deadlines for each term are: 
Application deadlines by Applicant Type
Applicant Type
Spring
Summer
Fall
Domestic Degree-Seeking
November 1
March 15
May 15
International Degree-Seeking
July 15
December 15
February 15
Campus Certificate
November 15
April 15
July 15
Non-Degree
November 15
April 15
August 1
Please note that many programs have earlier deadlines or accept applications only for certain terms.
It is important that you check the  for your intended year and term to see if your intended program has earlier deadlines or term restrictions.
In many cases, application materials will still be accepted after published application submission deadlines, however, some programs do have strict materials submission deadlines. Refer to the program's website to see if they have published materials submission deadlines. Program websites can be easily accessed from the .
We encourage applicants to apply early to provide sufficient time for materials submission and application review.
Domestic Applicants
International Applicants

Applicants who fit the following:
US Citizen (born or naturalized) or US Permanent Resident
Adjustment in Status (Permanent Residency Application Submitted)
Asylee, Refugee, Humanitarian Parolee
Non-citizen – Other (other categories do not apply to you)


Applicants who:
Currently hold a visa of any type or would need a visa to enter the United StatesThis includes applicants who are currently already in the US on a student visa for enrollment at another institution or on an employment-based visa.


 





Professional Level Program Deadlines 

The most up to date deadline information for Professional level programs will be posted on the program's website.
Please follow the links below for the important deadline dates.







 










 


























 










Office of Admissions
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161  
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.
 


 






 





















Copyright © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois







 

T









