










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Student Info





















































  




You are here»»
Graduate College New Student Orientation

 








Congratulations on beginning your graduate education at UIC! 
The Graduate College will be holding a Graduate New-Student Orientation for students admitted for Fall 2018 on Wednesday, August 22, 2018 from 9:00 AM  to 12:30 PM in the UIC Pavilion. Registration will take place from 8:00 to 9:00 AM. There will be a concurrent Graduate Student Resource Fair from 12:30 PM - 1:30 PM in the Pavilion.  A casual lunch will follow the orientation.
Once you have received your official admission letter from the Graduate College (via the Admissions Office), you will be able to register for orientation by signing into the UIC portal, , and looking for Graduate New-Student Orientation under UIC Connect. Instructions for UIC Connect will be provided with your official admission letter. Under this tab, you will be able to see information about signing up for orientation.
The New Graduate Student Orientation is OPTIONAL, NOT MANDATORY, but you are encouraged to attend.  Please check with your department regarding any mandatory orientations.  Teaching Assistants please see the link below for TA Orientation and International Students please see the like below for the Office of International Services Orientation.
The New Graduate Student Orientation will be held in the UIC Pavilion.  Please see the east campus map . The UIC Pavillion is located at 525 S. Racine Avenue at the corner of Racine and Harrison. Please be aware that the UIC Pavillion has a metal dector policy as well as limitations on what you are allowed to bring in including NO BACKPACKS or BAGS larger than 12" x 6" x 12"  for more information regarding the UIC Pavillion policies please see the 
Check-in begins at 8:00 AM, with opening remarks beginning promptly at 9:00 AM. The program concludes around 12:30 PM. The resource fair and lunch social will take place from 12:30-1:30 PM
The Graduate College orientation will offer you the opportunity to become familiar with Graduate College and other University staff, procedures, and services.  There will be several speakers from a number of UIC service units, as well as from senior administrators.
Reservations will be taken online, through .
Login information for UIC Connect is provided with your official admission letter sent from the Admissions Office, and signed by the Dean of the Graduate College.  You will not have access to UIC Connect until your admission is finalized by the Admissions Office.
Orientation information appears as a checklist item on the student's UIC Connect homepage.
Congratulations again on your decision to pursue graduate study.  We look forward to seeing you on August 22rd!
If you have any questions regarding the Graduate College orientation, please email .
 Other Information:

CTA runs many routes around the Pavilion. The Blue Line is about a half a block from our front door. The main buses are the 60, 7, 120 and the 8 that will get you in the general area of the UIC Pavilion. The CTA Blue line stop is Racine.
While on campus, students may be able to obtain the I-card student ID. You will need to bring a photo ID to the I-card office (not on site at orientation but right across the street at the student services building). 
For more information about the I-card and for locations on campus 
 Please be aware that UIC offers several different orientation sessions for graduate students.  You may be required to attend some of the following:
Graduate College new student orientation


 new student orientation
Individual degree program orientation(s)
Individual degree program assistantship orienatation(s)
For questions about other orientations, please check with your academic program. Click  for additional information. 
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


