
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					Frequently Asked Questions				




Frequently Asked Questions











GENERAL INFORMATION


 How can I learn more about UIC and Engineering?


 The College of Engineering at the University of Illinois at Chicago invites you to visit our campus. There’s no better way to find out if UIC ‘s College of Engineering is right for you than to visit our campus and see for yourself! to see the many ways you can come and visit us. In addition to attending an Open House, you may wish to learn more about our College of Engineering by speaking with a representative from one of our academic departments. For more information, please visit our  


When are the application deadlines? Housing deadline? Should I apply earlier?


 Deadlines are printed on the UIC application cover. For graduating Seniors, the application should be submitted no later than the end of December. Priority Deadlines for Fall and Spring semesters are listed in the current application information. For earliest consideration, Fall applications should be received by Janurary for Freshmen and March for Transfers. Application deadlines for the Spring term are early October. 





CURRENT STUDENTS


What are the Add / Drop deadlines in the College?


ADDING A COURSE
Continuing students register for the subsequent term during the early enrollment period. If you want to add a course to your schedule before the term begins, you may do so on a space availability basis up until the Friday before the term begins. After the term has begun, adding a course is subject to space availability, instructor approval, and meeting the deadlines cited below. Deadlines for Adding a course:
Fall Semester Deadline: Friday of Week 2
Spring Semester Deadline: Friday of Week 2
Summer Session Deadline: Friday of Week 1
See OAR Schedule for Add/Drop. Adding a course after the term is not recommended. You have missed several days of instruction, you may not have the syllabus, you may have missed an initial assignment or quiz. Although sometimes for courses in high demand, adding a course after instruction has begun may be your only option, it still may not be in your best interest to miss the initial days of instruction. Students may ADD a class through the Friday of first week of the Fall and Spring Semesters. Beginning with the Monday of the second week of the Fall and Spring Semesters, however, students must have the instructor’s approval to add a course and the faculty have the right to deny a student’s request. Students may ADD a class through the Friday of the first week of the Summer Session. During the Summer Session, students may not add a course after the first week of instruction. Exceptions to these deadlines are sometimes approved, provided that the student has the written approval of the instructor and the approval of a dean in the College of Engineering Undergraduate Office (COE-UGO). COE-UGO makes the final decision whether to allow a student to add a course after the deadline and requests may be denied, even when the instructor has supported the student’s request.
DROPPING A COURSE
Continuing students register for the subsequent term during the early enrollment period. If you want to drop a course from your schedule before the term begins, you may do so up until the Friday before the term begins. After the term has begun, you may still be able to drop a course by following the deadlines cited below. The DEADLINE for Engineering students to DROP a class is Friday of the second week of the Fall and Spring Semesters and Friday of the first week of the Summer Session. Students who drop a course within these periods do not receive a grade for the course. Students who drop a course after these periods receive a grade of W in the course. Grades of W are not included in the calculation of a student’s grade point average. Deadlines for Dropping a course:
Fall Semester Deadline: Friday of Week 2
Spring Semester Deadline: Friday of Week 2
Summer Session Deadline: Friday of Week 1
See OAR Schedule for Add/Drop.
EXCEPTIONS TO THE COURSE ADD AND DROP DEADLINES
Engineering students may DROP a class through the Friday of the second week of the Fall and Spring Semesters and through the Friday of the first week of the Summer Session without any penalty. All undergraduate students have four opportunities over the course of their UIC enrollment to drop a course without penalty from the third through tenth weeks of the Fall and Spring Semesters and from the second through fifth weeks of the Summer Session. Late drops in this period are approved, regardless of the circumstances, provided that the student submits a Late Drop Petition Form to the COE Front Office (123 SEO) within the designated period and that the student has not exceeded the limit of four late drops. The merits of the student’s request are not a factor in determining eligibility for an exception. Requests to drop a course after the tenth week of the Fall and Spring Semesters, and after the fifth week of the Summer Session, or requests to drop a course within the approved exception period in excess of the four automatic drops are not routinely granted unless there are exceptional circumstances, outside of the student’s control and that can be documented. Requests require a written petition and are reviewed by the Dean of the College. Poor performance in a course is not a sufficient reason to justify approval of a request. Because of the limitations on dropping classes, students are advised to evaluate their academic standing in the course with the instructor before requesting to exercise one of the allowable late drops.
WITHDRAWING FROM THE UNIVERSITY
A University Withdrawal is a process by which all courses are dropped and an entry of ‘W’ is made for each course on the transcript. UNIVERSITY WITHDRAWAL DEADLINES You may withdraw from the University at any time from the first day of instruction through the last day of instruction in each term conditional on not having earned a final grade in any course. After the 15th week (7th in summer), the college requires verification that the conditions for withdrawal have been met. Students contemplating a university withdrawal are advised to meet with an academic advisor if possible 


I am planning on graduating soon. What deadlines and procedures should I know about?


 In order to declare your intent to graduate you will need to submit an Intent to Graduate form online via the : You may sign on to UI-Integrate Self-Service and select “Graduation Information” from the Main Menu. Next click on “Notify Intent To Graduate This Term”. The submission deadline is the Friday of the third week of the Fall and Spring semesters and second week during the Summer. The semester BEFORE you intend to graduate, you should request a graduation check by submitting the You should do this the term before you intend to graduate so that any issues can be addressed before your final semester. You may also check your Degree Audit Report (DARS) online by going to  and clicking on the DARSWeb for Student link 


What are probation/drop rules for current students?


General rules for probation and drop for continuing COE students are described in the 
More specific and detailed terms are described in the following links to the “sample” letters that are sent to students:












Terms of probation mentioned in a student’s probation letter are the ones specifically applicable to that student. The contents of these “sample” letters on COE web site can be modified without prior notice.
Drop/1/ and Drop /2/ letters are same, but internally, COE flags Drop/1/ as drop action for probation violation, and Drop/2/ as drop action for excessive deficit points. In some cases, both Drop/1/ and Drop/2/ designations are applicable simultaneously.
Drop/3/ letters are the permanent drop letters issued to students who have been dropped before, re-admitted on probation with specific conditions before, and are now again facing drop action.


What are deficit points? How they affect probation/drop?


 Let us assume that a course has 3 credit hours. If the term grade is C, then the deficit points are zero. This is the neutral situation in the sense that the students are required to graduate with 2.0/5.0 GPA, or C average, and a grade of C in a course is considered neutral for the graduation requirement. If the grade is D, then the course contributes term deficit points of 3x(-1) = -3; if the grade is F, then the deficit points would be 3x(-2) = -6. On the other hand, grades of B and A would contribute positive deficit points (really, surpluses) of +3 and +6, respectively. If the “net” term deficit points for any student are (-12) or worse, that student is dropped for poor academic performance. Term deficit points for students on probation are also monitored for trends in academic progress. 


I received a Drop Letter, now what?


 Approximately 5% of COE students are dropped each term due to probation violations (Drop/1/), excessive deficit points (Drop/2/), or repeat drop situations (Drop/3/). Typically, students with Drop/1/2/ letters may be considered for re-admission after a gap of one or more regular semesters. This allows dropped students to catch up with college-level background technical material at a community college or another university, and to sort out part-time job and study related monetary, scheduling and personal issues. These dropped students are invited to an exit interview with the Undergraduate Dean for a realistic and frank assessment of their chances for re-admission to UIC by re-application in future. If a dropped student has no plans to join UIC in future, the exit interview is not necessary. In rare cases, e.g., when a dropped student is in the clear with respect to the cumulative UIC- and Major- GPA requirements for graduation on credit hours attempted by the time the drop action was initiated, the student may be re-admitted on probation, and with specific conditions, for the next term. 


Can I be dropped without first being put on probation?


 Yes, if the term deficit points are (-12) or worse, you will be dropped even if you were not on probation. 


What should I do if I have a complaint about a course or an instructor?


 You should first see the departmental Director of Undergraduate Studies (DUGS) or the Head for your complaints or concerns. If the issue remains unresolved, and after there is some record of departmental level consideration or action, then the issue can be brought to the UGO Dean in the College Office. 





FIRST YEAR STUDENTS


What does an Engineer do?


 An Engineer can problem solve in a variety of areas. He/she can be an inventor, a manager, researcher, designer, planner or developer. An engineer may also work in manufacturing, technical writing and even technical product sales. Anything else? Yes! An Engineer can also be a consultant or systems analyst. With an engineering degree you can go on to law school (and later focus on patent law), or you can go on for an MBA (Masters in Business Administration). The world is open to you with engineering degree! 


If I don’t qualify for Engineering right after high school, can I still get in later?


 Absolutely! Some students do not decide on their future path until later….and then they get serious! What you need to do is locate a community college in your area, and if you are in Chicago or the surrounding suburbs, we have a  for your school. Now you ask, what is a ? Well, this is our way of guiding you into our College of Engineering. This UIC  for the College of Engineering (official title) will list all of the pre-requisite courses you need to take before you can transfer. In the event you choose this method of coming to engineering, we encourage you to let us know and check in with us every semester so we can help you along in your courses and schedules. You may be at a different school, but if you are planning on UIC Engineering, we still consider you a part of the family and want to get to know you! 


How important is the ACT or SAT? Am I required to take both?


 All beginning freshman must have either an ACT or SAT score on file when the admission decision is made. We prefer that the test scores be sent directly from ACT or the College Board, but we will accept a test score on the official high school transcript. The Office of admissions will use the highest ACT composite score or SAT total score (from a single test session) that is on file when the admission decision is made. If a student has taken the SAT, verbal and math scores will be added and converted to reflect the ACT equivalent. 


Where does rank fit into Engineering admissions?


 We use this formula to convert a student’s class rank to a percentile: [(class size – class rank) / class size] x 100 = HSPR If your school does not rank its students, your school can enclose a note to that effect with your transcript. If your school supplies two ranks based on weighted and unweighted grades, we will use the higher rank. Applicants who rank below the 30th percentile are not eligible for admission regardless of their ACT score. 


I am a high school student, what will help me prepare for Engineering?


 In order to be prepared for the engineering curriculum, it is necessary to take at least 3.5 years of Math in high school and at least 2 years of Laboratory Science. The best recommendation would be to take 4 years of each with emphasis on taking Advanced Placement courses if they are offered at your high school. 


How long will it take me to graduate?


 The Engineering curriculum is designed to be completed in 4 years can be accomplished if the student places into the appropriate courses and either takes heavy courseloads and/or attends summer sessions. The average graduation time for our students however is 5 years. Unlike other majors that require 120 hours of course work to graduate, the College of Engineering requires 128 hours of course work for graduation. The challenging nature of course work also requires students interested in good grades to take semesters with an average of 14hours of course work, extending their expected graduation. 





FUTURE STUDENTS


What are the courses I need for admission?


 While there are no specific course prerequisites in order to be admitted to the UIC, College of Engineering, It is highly recommended that students complete the following courses prior to attending: English Composition I, II; Calculus I, II, III; Differential Equations; calculus-based Physics I, II; and Chemistry I. (Exception: in lieu of Chemistry I, Computer Science applicants may substitute one course in Biology of Cells and Organisms, Biology of Populations and Communities, or Introduction to Earth Science I or II.) Courses in which grades of “D” are earned will not be applied toward the degree. 


If I don’t have the required 60 semester hours may I still apply for admission?


 Yes you may still apply. While most students who meet our admission criteria already have at least 60 semester hours completed, in certain circumstances a student may have completed all of the required courses and still have less than 60 semester hours completed. 


You mention “pre-requisites” courses for engineering. What are those?


 Pre-requisites is a long word that means courses you need to take that will allow you to take upper level engineering courses in the future. They include General Chemistry, Calculus I, ll, lll, Differential Equations, English Composition l and ll, calculus-based Physics l and ll (Mechanics and Electricity and Magnetism). Another method of completing the pre-requisite coursework is here at UIC, through the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Your UIC application would list that college because your first two years would include course work from their curriculum. Then, after you have completed the courses with the appropriate grades, you can be an Intercollege Transfer (ICT) student. Once again, if this is the option you choose, please check in with Engineering, as we have an ICT Program to assist you in your progress toward engineering. The ICT program includes about 5 sessions per semester where you will have the chance to meet with Engineering Counselors. And we need your email to notify you of the dates! 


Where can I complete the prerequisites?


 Students may complete prerequisites at any accredited two or four-year college or university 


 What are the grades needed to be a transfer student?


 Your Math and Science course grade are the most important!! Even though Social science courses and humanities are important areas, in engineering your Math and Science grades become the most critical. In those areas we need at least a 2.50 GPA (4.0 scale, 3.5 on 5.0 scale) in addition to having that GPA as your cumulative GPA. 


Do I need to take placement tests?


 Students who have completed a course equivalent to Calculus I or English Composition I do not need to take a placement test in those subjects. Students who intend to take Chemistry at UIC must take the chemistry placement test; this includes both those who have not studied chemistry previously and those with any amount of transfer credit in general chemistry or other area of chemistry. Students who intend to take a foreign language course at UIC should contact the college office to discuss whether a placement test is necessary. 


How do I get a transfer course approved?


 Transfer guides are provided on our website for many Illinois community colleges and select 4-year institutions. We are in the process of expanding the number of colleges for which we provide transfer guides. 


What do I do if my school doesn’t have a transfer guide?


 You may contact one of the Recruitment & Admissions Counselors to find out if courses are transferable. Your questions may possibly be referred to a specific person within the college office. In some cases it may be necessary for you to provide a course syllabus for review by the departmental advisor. Please contact us well ahead of your deadline for obtaining information. 


How long will it take me to graduate once I have been admitted?


 Generally, plan to spend two to three years completing requirements if you transfer course work from a community college. If you transfer course work from a U.S. 4-year college which includes significant study in comparable upper-level engineering courses, the minimum amount of study required at UIC is 30 semester hours. The minimum number of acceptable semester hours required for an engineering degree is 128. Due to the challenging nature of an engineering degree and the plentiful opportunities for UIC engineering students to obtain co-ops and internships or to study abroad, many students elect to extend their undergraduate study. 


 











 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















