
















 


  University of Illinois at Chicago  | College of Engineering Make a Gift


 
FUTURE STUDENTS

Undergraduate Admissions
Chancellor’s Fellows Program
Graduate Admissions
Life @ UIC
Visit Us


ACADEMICS

Departments
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Current Students

Undergraduate Students


Scholarships
MakerSpace


STUDENT LIFE

Student Office Hours
Student Organizations
Student Activities – EXPO
Career Center
Student Affairs
Disability Resource Center


RESEARCH

Research Centers
Research Strengths
Interdisciplinary Areas

Autonomous Vehicles


Industry Tech Services


ABOUT US

Mission Statement
ABET Accreditation
Make a Gift
News

College News
Student News


People

Faculty
Staff
Directory


Offices
Alumni
Contact






 


















 















































































  








					UIC College of Engineering				




















 





















Learn why 30+ young women become Girls Who Code at UIC 























Researchers from ChE's MaSEL (www.singh-lab.com) and JCAP
(www.solarfuelshub.org) have revealed the mechanism of electrochemical conversion of CO2 to fuels in #PNAS 









Photo by Manuel Martinez 



 







 WELCOME TO THE UIC COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 




        


   


Engineering Programs    28


    25K+
STUDENT NEWS
















December 3, 2018
A team of UIC engineering students from ECE and CS – along with a BioEngineering alumna – won the recent BuiltWorlds 2018 Hackathon, which included a $10,000 prize, at the Salt Flats’ West Loop innovation house. The two-day event kicked off on Friday evening as participants heard from both industry professionals and fellow hackers who described potential problems teams could tackle throughout the weekend.











November 28, 2018
John Mulrow, a PhD candidate in the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering (CME), partnered with a team of scientists from the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (MWRDGC), a professor from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and professionals from Ensaras, Inc., to win second place at the inaugural “LIFT Intelligent Water Systems Challenge.”











November 19, 2018
PhD candidate Jyoti K. Chetri has a strong work ethic and an even stronger desire to make the world a better place. It is this drive that helped the Department of Civil and Materials Engineering student win a Chicago Consular Corps (CCC) Scholarship for the academic year 2018-2019 from UIC’s Office of International Affairs (OIA).











November 2, 2018
Brady Middleton doesn’t wait for opportunities. He creates them. The industrial engineering student at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) saw a problem and – in true engineering fashion – he came up with a resolution. His answer was the founding of a company called Think773.













COLLEGE NEWS
















November 2, 2018
ECE Professor Hulya Seferoglu is on a roll! The prolific researcher was awarded five grants in the recent months for a total of more than $1.3 million in research funding. The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) professor has received awards from the National Science Foundation, Army Research Lab, Army Research Office, National Institute of Standards and Technology and an industry grant. She is UIC’s principal investigator (PI) for four of these five awards. Each grant is for a different research project, but they all have a common thread – Edge computing.











October 24, 2018
Knowles Corporation, a market leader and global provider of advanced micro-acoustic, audio processing, and precision device solutions, today announced it has committed $250,000 to the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) College of Engineering to support female engineering students. Knowles’ donation is vital to creating positive and enriching environments for students to discover potential career paths in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields.











October 17, 2018
“Chicago New Media 1973–1992” is a public exhibition, to be held November 1 – December 15, 2018, that illuminates the largely untold story of Chicago’s computer-based art and design legacy, and provides new historical understanding of the artists and organizations that contributed to digital art and technology in the latter half of the 20th Century. 











October 9, 2018











 NIH-funded research has produced 15 of the 21 most important drugs in the past 25 years. It’s produced almost every major innovative vaccine. It has won 93 Nobel Prizes, reduced the number of heart attacks by 60 percent, and helped scientists to invent one-third of commercially patented medical applications. Yet support for federally funded research continues to plummet. “America is losing its passion for science,” said Milan Yager, executive director of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering, who visited campus last month as the special guest for the Richard and Loan Hill Department of Bioengineering’s first seminar of the academic year. During his session, Yager talked about the critical need for the U.S. government’s…















DEPARTMENTS






































































 
Connect With Us 
    

Quick Links





 Make a Gift
Resources





 
 











© Copyright 2018. The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement















