










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Student Info





















































  




You are here»
Registration & Policies

 








Establish Net ID and Enterprise ID
Students register online using UIC Student Self-Service.  Before the student may register, a Net ID and Enterprise ID must be established.  Usually this is done after formal admission when the admitted applicant is given access to UIC Connect, the information site for admitted applicants.  Follow the following urls for information on how to , and to .
Advising
All graduate degree students must receive course selection advising from their program.  Both degree and nondegree students should read the section on .
Registration Procedures
Graduate students are governed by the policies of the University of Illinois at Chicago, the Graduate College, their disciplinary (line) college, and their department or program, and they are expected to become familiar with these policies. The printed  in effect when the student begins enrollment in a specific degree program is the primary source of information on Graduate College policies and program degree requirements pertaining to the student.  While some administrative policies may change after printing, and the student is responsible for knowing the changes, specific degree program requirements in the catalog in effect for ths student's first term in a specific program remain in effect until the student graduates, assuming continuous registration. 
Many of the university and departmental policies are listed in the Graduate College Catalog, but individual programs may also have policy manuals for their graduate students. When a department requirement is approved by and exceeds that of the Graduate College, it replaces the Graduate College standard.





Master's:Master's students who have completed all course credit requirements but have not yet completed a graduation requirement (e.g., thesis, or project, or comprehensive examination) are not required to register unless they hold a fellowship, assistantship or tuition and service-fee waiver. Students who are on a time-limited visa or are in programs that require continuous registration must petition the program and the Graduate College to register for zero hours in an appropriate course (master's thesis, 598, or master's project, 597).  International students must consult with the Office of International services before completing a petition. Master's students are only eligible for zero hours Option A.
Option A:Register for zero hours of credit in thesis research (598), or project (597). each semester until the degree is awarded (excluding summer unless required by your program). Range IV tuition and fees are assessed (see ). 
Note for Student Visa Holders:  Current SEVIS (federal immigration) regulations do not allow an international student on a student visa to register for more than zero (0) hours in a subsequent term, if the student was registered for zero (0) hours previously, unless the student is admitted into a different program.  This  precludes accepting an assistantship or tuition waiver for future terms after a zero-hour registration occurs.  The rationale for the regulation is that zero-hour registration is allowed for students on a visa only if all requirements other than the thesis or master's project are completed, and registration for more than zero hours indicates that they did not originally qualify, and, are thus out of status.  Unfortunately, flexibility to take a course for intellectual development or to register for hours to qualify for an assistantship or tuition waiver after zero-hour registration does not exist currently.
Doctoral:Students who do not hold a fellowship, assistantship, or tuition and fee waiver, and who have completed all degree requirements except the dissertation, and who do not wish to register for additional coursework, must either:
Option A:
 Register for zero hours of credit in thesis research (599) each semester through successful defense of dissertation (excluding summer unless defending dissertation). Students on a student visa may need to register even after the term of defense if staying in the country - consult directly with the Office of International Services.  Range IV tuition, including the tuition differential, if applicable to the student's program, and fees are assessed (see ).  Students are ineligible for the U-Pass if registered for zero hours; or
Option B:
 Register for zero hours of credit in thesis research (599) each semester through successful defense of dissertation (excluding summer unless defending dissertation). Must petition for each renewal and specify Option B and term(s) on petition. Only the Range IV tuition is charged, including the tuition differential, if applicable for the student's program (see Graduate and Professional Tuition and Fees).  No fees are assessed related to the registration (except for Range IV tuition, and differential, if applicable). Students may elect from one to two terms with each petition. Students who elect this option are ineligible for student health insurance (may be purchased seperately for one term only - view deadlines and confirm if you are eligible with ), U-Pass and some on-campus facilities.
Permission to use either Option A or B will be considered by the Graduate College upon petition supported by the graduate program. For Option B, the department must certify that no use of University facilities will be made. Students must re-file a petition for Option B by the 10th day of the term (5th for summer).
Student loans may continue to be deferred while the student is officially under zero-hour status (approved petition) if the student is otherwise eligible for the deferral.  Contact the  for information.
All students must complete and defend the dissertation by the degree deadline, regardless of which option is chosen.
Note for Student Visa Holders:  Current SEVIS (federal immigration) regulations do not allow an international student on a student visa to register for more than zero (0) hours in a subsequent term, if the student was registered for zero (0) hours previously, unless the student is admitted into a different program.  This  precludes accepting an assistantship or tuition waiver for future terms after a zero-hour registration occurs.  The rationale for the regulation is that zero-hour registration is allowed for students on a visa only if all requirements other than the thesis or master's project are completed, and registration for more than zero hours indicates that they did not originally qualify, and, are thus out of status.  Unfortunately, flexibility to take a course for intellectual development or to register for hours to qualify for an assistantship or tuition waiver after zero-hour registration does not exist currently.
Credit/NoCredit option:
Grading option. No grade points are earned and the grade is not computed in the grade point average. If the required work for the course has not been completed by the end of the term, at the instructor's discretion an IN may be given. Graduate students may take courses on a credit/no credit basis provided that: (1) The courses are not within their immediate area of specialization, (2) such courses account for no more than one sixth of the total number of course hours taken at the University of Illinois at Chicago and counted toward a degree, and (3) they declare their intention to take a course on this basis at the time of registration and have the approval of their advisor and director of graduate studies. Some programs do not allow any Credit/No Credit courses to be used toward degree requirements. Credit/No Credit grades cannot be changed to grades A-F at a later date. (Previous to Fall 2004, the grade of E was used in place of a grade of F).
 (charges eliminated)

 (Course visitor status)

Registration holds:
Students will be restricted from registration if they have a financial or other registration hold, e.g., if they owe the university money from the current or a previous term. Students will not be allowed to register until their account is paid, and requests to register after the registration deadline will not be approved if the student failed to clear a hold during the regular registration periods.
Students may have a variety of holds, other than advising, which affect their ability to register. These include financial, immunization, incomplete debt counseling, etc. The office that placed the hold is the only office that can remove it. Students must contact those offices to resolve the problem. Students may view holds via Web For Student at any time, so it is to their advantage to remove any such holds before the registration process. A student could possibly have a hold from UIUC or UIS. If it is a financial hold from one of the other campuses within the U of I system, payment can be made at UIC. If it is another type of hold, the student must contact the relevant office at the other campus.

Maximum hours:
Students who can devote full time to their studies usually enroll for 12 to 16 credit hours each term. Registration for more than 20 hours is not recommended.  In exceptional cases, the advisor and director of graduate studies may permit a student to enroll for more than 20 hours by contacting the Graduate College to place a Maximum Hours  in Banner for the student for a specific term. 
Full-time load for graduate students is defined by the University as registration of 9 hours or more.
Closed section/Time conflicts:
If the student is unable to register because of course restrictions, time conflicts, or closed sections, the department offering the course must put an override in Banner for the student. The student must then register for the course. Staff no longer has the ability to directly add the student to the class roster, only to provide the . Departments should not provide a section override if the room capacity for the course is already at the maximum.


Participation in class exercises that involve the use of animals
The University of Illinois at Chicago offers certain courses in which live, euthanized, or preserved vertebrate animals are used as part of course requirements. Such courses are identified in the  with the note "animals used in instruction."
Students who have ethical concerns about the use of animals in teaching have the responsibility to contact the instructor, prior to enrollment in any course in which animals may be used as part of course instruction, to determine whether class exercises involving animals are optional or required, and what alternatives, if any, are available. If no alternatives are available, the refusal to participate in required activities involving animals may result in a failing grade in the course. 
UIC Web For StudentStudent Self-Service
Schedule of Classes

Tuition & Fees
 (policy)


Changing from non-degree to degree
Non-degree graduate students interested in changing to degree status must submit a . All application credentials must be on file before the change to degree status will be considered. The form and all credentials must be submitted by the degree application deadline.
No more than 12 semester hours of credit earned as a non-degree student can be transferred into the degree program. Students must file a petition for the transfer of non-degree credit; only graduate-level courses in which a grade of A or B was earned will be considered. (See )

Degree Requirements
Degree program deadlines:
Master's degree (32 to 40 hours): 5 years
Master's degree (41 to 64 hours): 6 years
Doctorate with prior master's degree (minimum 64 hours): 7 years
Doctorate without master's degree (minimum 96 hours): 9 years
Time spent on an approved leave of absence will not count towards time to degree. Students who do not graduate by these deadlines will be dismissed from the Graduate College for failure to progress.


Changes in degree requirements
Program and Graduate College policies and requirements change periodically and may not be immediately reflected in campus publications. New degree requirements, however, are not imposed retroactively on continuing graduate students. If degree requirements are changed, students may complete their degree programs under the requirements in effect at the time of their initial enrollment (readmission, if they have discontinued degree status) in the Graduate College. They have the option, however, of electing to be governed by the new requirements if they so desire, provided that all requirements of one catalog are met.
Students who interrupt their enrollment without prior formal approval lose their status as graduate students. If they want to return they must apply for readmission. For readmitted students the requirements for the degree are those published in the catalog at the time of readmission, or any subsequent catalog, provided all the requirements of one catalog are met.


Transfer of Credit

Recognition of 32 hours from previously earned master:
 Doctoral candidates who have previously earned a master's degree or its equivalent approved by one of the regional accreditation associations or by the agencies recognized by the Council on Post Secondary Education may be granted 32 semester hours of credit toward the doctoral degree if approved by the program and the Graduate College at the time of admission. The 32 hours are subtracted from the total hours required from the baccalaureate. The 32 hours are not counted toward the maximum allowed transfer credit limit or computed in the cumulative GPA or Degree GPA. A petition is not required.

 (PDF)

 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


