










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Student Info





















































  




You are here»»
Electronic Thesis/Dissertation

 









Link to Submit an ETD
Students in all programs must submit their master's thesis or doctoral dissertation to the Graduate College electronically as a PDF using the ETD submission system. The Graduate College no longer accepts paper submissions effective Fall 2011.
Click on the following link to begin the submission process:

Related Pages






Intent to Graduate
The thesis submission process is seperate from declaring an intent to graduate.  See  for procedures and deadlines for submitting and Intent to Graduate.
Committee Approval
Master's Thesis, Doctoral Preliminary Examination, and Doctoral DIssertation committees are approved by the Graduate College based on guidelines developed by the faculty and the Graduate College Executive Committee.   A Committee Recommendation Form must be completed and submitted to the Graduate College, with appropriate signatures, at least three weeks before the date of the examination or defense.  See  for procedures and forms.
Registration Requirements
The Graduate College does not require master's students to be registered in order to submit an Intent to Graduate, defend a thesis, submit a thesis to the Graduate College, or graduate, assuming all course requirements are completed, or will be completed by the graduation deadline.  Students with federal aid, assistantships, tuition and service-fee waivers, fellowships, or on student visas need to be registered under most circumstances.  Additionally, some programs require registration in the term of a thesis defense.
The Graduate College requires doctoral students to be continuously registered from the term of the Preliminary Examination through the term of a successful dissertation defense (not necessarily the term of graduation), excluding summers, unless a Preliminary Examination or dissertation defense occurs in a summer term.
Thesis/Dissertation Submission Deadlines
See  .
Electronic Thesis/Dissertation FAQs
See .
Electronic Thesis and Dissertation Format
The format of the electronic thesis and dissertation follows the guidelines detailed in the Graduate College Thesis Manual.  See .
Thesis/Dissertation Publishing Options/Access and Related Information
For information on publishing options (traditional, open access, restricted) and on copyright and thesis writing see .
Library Fee and Payment
See information at .
Additional Forms and Payments
See information at .
ETD Submission Responsibilities of Student, Defense Committee Chair, and Academic Program
Please see this information .
Electronic Thesis and Dissertation Submission Process
See  for procedures and special instructions on the submission  process.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


