










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








About Us
















  




You are here»
Virtual Tour of UIC/How to Reach UIC/Visit

 








 Virtual Tour,Campus Information and Directions to Campus
 - Note: Some information in the text refers to undergraduate student issues



 - Consult with the Office of Parking Services for information on visitor parking
Campus bus maps


Visit 
Potential or newly-admitted graduate students who wish to visit UIC should contact the academic program for which there is an interest in order to determine availability of staff, faculty or graduate students in the program.  Not all programs may have the flexibility for tours, but may be able to offer consultation. Refer to the  or the  for urls, phone numbers, and other contact information. 
Guest Housing and Hotels  
Guest housing is available in certain dorms at UIC.  Contact  for information.
Nearby hotels that offer special rates for potential students of UIC and their families.  Tell them that you are visiting UIC.
733 West Madison Street
Located on Madison and Halsted, just blocks from the UIC Campus and in the heart of Greek Town. UIC has a special rate of $129 for Singles or Doubles. For individual reservations call (312) 829-5000; for group reservations call (312) 602-2104 and ask for Norma Badal.
350 North Orleans Street
Located atop the Apparel Center and adjacent to the Merchandise Mart, this hotel offers spectaular views of the Chicago River, the Loop business district and downtown Chicago.
506 West Harrison Street
Steps away from the Sears Tower, Greek Town, and Amtrak's Union Station.
Chicago Weather



 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


