










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Academics & Programs

















  




You are here»
Course Listings

 








Graduate students receive credit towards graduation for 400- and 500-level courses (some exceptions apply).  Students need to check with academic advisors in the program of study for advise on actual courses. 
100-300 level courses are usually open for registration to graduate students, and credit appears on the transcript for any such courses that may be taken by the student; however, these courses do not count towards graduation credit nor are they calculated into the graduate degree grade point average used by the Graduate College for academic standing/probation and graduation.  The grade  point average that is included on the transcript, is calculated by the student level (eg. undegraduate, nondegree, or gradaute) includes all courses (100- through 500-level) taken by the student while under a particular level, but is not used by the Graduate College.  It may be advisable for graduate students to take 100- through 300-level on a Credit/No-Credit option, if this is a concern.
600-level courses are only open to medical profession students (eg. MD or DMD) and do not recieve graduate credit.
See  for a list of courses offered by the Graduate College that are available to students across disciplines.
See  and  for a list all courses currently offered by the University (although not necesarrily in a given term)..
The  is a listing of courses offered in a specific term, and is updated with course changes until registration closes for that term.  The Schedule of Classes is dynamic, with search features, although a final static copy will be preserved for reference after registration closes for each term.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


