










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Academics & Programs

















  




You are here»
Faculty Listings

 








Standards for admission to membership in the Faculty of the Graduate College are determined jointly by the Dean and the Executive Committee of the Graduate College.  There are four levels of membership:  Full, Associate, Adjunct and Courtesy.  Note that the levels of membership are different than the professor's rank of full professor, associate professor, etc., even though some of the same terminology is used for both.
List of UIC Graduate College Faculty
View a current  - last updated October 2018 (Excel spreadheet).  This listing should be used by student and programs forming examination committees.
Listings of Graduate Faculty with Full or Associate membership in the Graduate College are listed in .  This listing does not include retired faculty who retain membership nor does it include Adjunct or Courtesy members.  Consult the complete list above for that information.
Membership Categories
Membership categories of Graduate College Faculty allow different rights and privileges pertaining to student mentoring and serving on student committees.  The following is excerpted from the .
Full Membership
Full Membership is granted for the term of employment to tenured or tenure track faculty in a UIC department that houses a program under the umbrella of the Graduate College who have been recommended by the department or other teaching or research divisions and approved by the Dean. In the College of Medicine recommendations for full membership are limited to appointments in the Research Track.
Retired faculty with Full membership automatically retain their memberships at the same level for three years after retirement. In special cases membership can be extended upon request to the Graduate Dean by the Executive Officer attesting to the fact that the nominated faculty is still active in graduate education.
Associate Membership
Associate members are typically clinical track or non-tenure system faculty whose program wishes to grant them the right to serve as primary advisors to students in that program. Once appointed, Associate members retain their memberships so long as they continue to meet the criteria. Associate Membership is granted upon recommendation to the Dean by the Executive Officer of the department or equivalent unit. The nominating department must take a vote of the Full members of the Graduate Faculty on the question of the candidate’s membership. The results of that vote must accompany the membership request. In exceptional circumstances, distinguished individuals without a UIC appointment may be proposed for Associate membership and approved for a fixed term.
Retired faculty with Associate membership automatically retain their memberships at the same level for three years after retirement. In special cases membership can be extended upon request to the Graduate Dean by the Executive Officer attesting to the fact that the nominated faculty is still active in graduate education.
Adjunct Membership
Adjunct members are typically UIC faculty or other employees who possess expertise that makes it likely and desirable for them to serve repeatedly on graduate student committees. Adjunct members must be UIC employees. They are appointed for three-year (renewable) terms through a recommendation to the Graduate Dean from the Executive Officer of the department or equivalent unit.
Courtesy Membership
Courtesy members are typically non-UIC employees who possess some expertise that makes them desirable members of a particular graduate student committee. Courtesy members are appointed to sit on a specific committee, and need to be reappointed for each committee. Courtesy members are appointed through a recommendation to the Graduate Dean from the Executive Officer of the department or equivalent unit. 
Graduate College Faculty Memberhip Nominations
Graduate Faculty do not nominate themselves for membership. The Nomination Form for Graduate College Faculty Membership must be subitted from the Executive Officer's (typically head or chair) office, of an academic department or equivalent unit that holds a graduate degree program. 
If a faculty member is erronously omited from the list (see above), contact your unit's Executive Officer.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


