










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Funding Your Education



































  




You are here»
Emergency Grants

 








Graduate students who experience an acute and unexpected short-term hardship are able to apply for an emergency grant.  This program is being administered by the Graduate College in accordance with applicable University rules and policies. Funding for the Emergency Grant program comes from the Student-to-Student fee that is assessed to graduate students in Fall and Spring Semesters.  The fund itself is limited, and therefore, the following criteria have been established.
Applicants must be degree-seeking graduate students at UIC (classified as "2G") for the term the hardship occurred.
  
Applicants must be registered for a minimum of eight (8) semester hours for the term in which the hardship occured.  The student must also apply for the funds in the term in which the hardship occurred, although applicants may submit their application into the next term if the timing of the event that caused the hardship necessitates such action.  
  
Emergency grants are funded by the Student-to-Student fee assessed graduate students.  The Gradaute College receives a part of these funds to finance the emergency grant program. Funding of individual applications must, therefore, be limited, due to the resources available. 
  
Award decisions will be made based on the applicant's individual situation, but amounts awarded are subject to limitations and the applicant may not receive the total amount requested.  Grants will generally be no more than $500 due to limited funds available; however, when completing the application the total amount requested, even if over $500, should be indicated on the form.  The approved amount will not be greater than the documented expense (eg. amount for dental procedure not covered by insurance).  It is not within the scope of this grant to fund expected maintenance doctor's (or other) expenses, even if not covered by insurance, unless there may be other contributing circumstances. 
  
International students are eligible to apply. 
  
The Emergency Grant application must be used and filled out completely before submission to the Graduate College.  A signed explantion of the events that caused the acute and unexpected expenses, the reasons you believe your situation warrants the grant, and supporting documenation (for example, doctor's and insurance statement; earning statement-if applicable).
  
Grants awarded under this program are not subject to repayment and the amount of any awarded grant will be reported to the graduate student’s tax form 1098-T. 
  
Students who were Spring 2011 Graduate Assistants (GAs) should attach copies of their February 16 and March 16 earnings statements to the application form. The earnings statement can be found at: .  Other students should provide adequate documentation to show their loss of income, if applicable. 
  
The grant may be considered taxable income. Individuals should contact their tax professional to make a determination on whether or not this grant is taxable. 
Students will be awarded at most one Emergency Grant within a twelve (12) month period. 
  
Students must have on record in the student database a Social Security Number or TIN. 
  
Awarded grant money will be direct-deposited into the financial account (e.g. checking account) a student has established in the University student database.  See FAQs below for additional information. 
  
Completed application forms should be submitted to the Graduate College, 6th floor University Hall. 
  
Questions related to the emergency grant program should be directed to . 
Emergency Grant Application Form
The application form should be completely filled out and signed before it is submitted to the Graduate College.  In adition, any supporting documents should be attached.  The Graduate College may contact you for additional information or clarifications.

Student Financial Aid Implications

Students who apply for and receive an emergency grant may find that it impacts their existing financial aid (federal loans). Students should contact the Office of Student Financial Aid (, or find your specific Financial Aid counselor at http://www.uic.edu/depts/financialaid/contactus.shtml).
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)Q.  Are all graduate students eligible to apply to the Emergency Grant?
A.  All graduate students who are degree-seeking and who are currently registered for 8 or more hours (3 or more hours during Summer Session).  The applicant to the grant will need to show that the current financial hardship is both unexpected and acute.
Q. After I apply for the Emergency Grant how soon will I know if I have received it?
A. The review is expected to occur within 48 hours of receipt of the completed application in the Graduate College, and the decision will be sent to the email provided on the application form. If the application is incomplete or additional information is required you will be notified via email to correct the problem and the application will be reviewed once completed.
Q. If my request for an Emergency Grant is approved, how will the grant money reach me?
A. If an Emergency Grant is approved, the Graduate College will process the Emergency Grant in the University system. The awarded grant money will be put in the student’s UIC account. 
If you do not owe money to the University, 100% of the awarded grant will be direct-deposited into the established bank account to which your assistantship salary checks are deposited. [If you do not have an assistantship and have not established direct-deposit, you need to do so.]
  
If you owe money to the University and you have already established a payment plan, 100% of the awarded grant will be direct-deposited into the established bank account to which your assistantship salary checks are deposited. [If you do not have an assistantship and have not established direct-deposit, you need to do so.]
  
If you owe money to the University and you have not established a payment plan, you must first do so by contacting Tina Ramey in Student Financial Services (312-996-8574). After you have set up a payment plan, 100% of the awarded grant will be direct-deposited into the established bank account to which your assistantship salary checks are deposited. [If you do not have an assistantship and have not established direct-deposit, you need to do so.]

Note: these transactions are processed manually so delays may occur. It is anticipated that the review of the grant application in the Graduate College will take two work days. If approved, the grant money should be in the student’s account within two weeks. 
Q. Can I set up a payment plan for money owed the University in anticipation of receiving the grant?
A. Yes. Contact Tina Ramey in Student Financial Services (312-996-8574).
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


