










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Funding Your Education



































  




You are here»
UIC Pipeline to an Inclusive Faculty (PIF) Program

 








Nominations for the 2018 PIF Retention Fellowship
We are soliciting nominations to fill a single scholar position in the Pipeline to an Inclusive Faculty (PIF) Program. The intention of this program is to support outstanding underrepresented PhD students who are interested in pursuing careers as faculty members with funding packages, skills and professional development opportunities, and mentoring in order to ensure their success in graduate school and in their future careers. PIF Scholars receive $28,000 stipends (and associated tuition and service fee waivers) for three years and then a top-off up to $28,000 for one year when they are appointed as a TA to gain teaching experience. PIF scholars are also expected to attend monthly meetings.
Eligibility: Qualified students will be from groups underrepresented in the academy and will be entering their second year of a UIC PhD program in Fall 2018. We will be looking for exceptional performance in the first year of their PhD program, as well as a clear commitment to pursuing a career as a faculty member.
Note: Students cannot apply directly; they must be nominated by their Director of Graduate Studies or a designee.  will consist of (a) an application form that includes text boxes for notable (recent) activities and a personal statement, (b) a CV, and (c) a  form that includes a text box in lieu of a nominating letter.
The  and  are both fillable PDFs. NOTE: Save them to a local folder before completing them. The deadline for departments/programs to send completed applications is 4 p.m. JUNE 15th.
Unable to download the files from our website? Try these links:  and  form.
Submission instructions: Combine the application, DGS transmittal, and CV into a single PDF, following the naming convention PIF_2018_Psych_JoeJ.pdf, and send as an email attachment to Box: 
***
Pipeline to an Inclusive Faculty (PIF) Program
Objective: Acknowledging the lack of diversity in faculty around the country, we wanted to build a program at UIC to recruit and support outstanding underrepresented PhD students, who are interested in pursuing careers as faculty members.Our intent is to support these students with competitive funding packages, skills and professional development opportunities and mentoring in order to ensure their success in graduate school and in their future careers.
Overview of PIF Program
Selection Process: Five underrepresented scholars in PhD programs in any discipline will be selected each year from Abraham Lincoln and University Fellowship applicants. Applicants should indicate their interest and commitment to a career in the professoriate in their personal statement.
	 
Funding: Scholars will receive adequate funding so that they will be able to concentrate on their scholarship and skills development and progress to degree in a timely fashion. PIF Scholars will receive three years of funding at $28,000 and one year of top-off funding at $10,000 to add to the stipend provided by a teaching assistantship.
	 
Mentoring: Scholars will be paired with both a senior student peer mentor from their program and a faculty mentor who is outside of their department and who is not their research advisor. They will also be part of a peer-mentoring network, including students at all stages of their graduate programs, and participate in research presentation seminars, writing groups and community building events.
	 
Grant Writing Experience: Scholars will apply for the UIC Chancellor’s Award or Provost/Deiss Award research funding and/or external funding by their third year in the program.
	 
Teaching Experience and Training: Scholars will serve as teaching assistants to build their teaching skills. Scholars will also enroll in at least one semester of an approved teaching course, and will be encouraged to complete the GC Foundations of College Instruction certificate.
	 
Mentoring skills: To build their mentoring skills, scholars will serve as “Research Team Leaders” in the Summer Research Opportunities Program (SROP) for one summer, or participate in another mentoring extended mentoring experience.
	 
Networking in Field: Scholars will be provided with funds to attend discipline specific meetings (or travel for their research) in order to build a national presence and network for job placement.
	 
Professional development: Scholars will be expected to fulfill all professional development requirements in their own department and in addition attend other selected workshops.
Updated 5/16/18bw
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


