










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Funding Your Education



































  




You are here»
UIC, U of I System, and Federal Opportunities

 








UIC Awards
Graduate students at UIC are eligible to apply for a number of awards provided for students just at UIC as well as students enrolled in the University of Illinois system. These awards are as follows – click the name of the award for further information.

In order to submit an entry for the 3MT competition, please complete this two-part application process:
First, complete the application form found at 
Second, upload your video submission to the following Box folder. Your submission can be either a text document with a link to a video-hosting website (e.g. YouTube, Vimeo, etc.) or the video itself. 
If you are unable to load to box send a YouTube or other hosting link to  with 3MT Video and your name in the subject line.

For UIC graduate students.  Travel Awards can be used for presentations at conferences; Project Grants are awarded for service projects.

For UIC students at all levels, based on ethnicity and academic merit. Applications are available online usually in January with an April deadline. Graduate students who receive the MLK award stipend also receive a tuition and selected fees waiver from the Graduate College.

The Scholarship Association of UIC provides a large number of diverse awards for UIC students, listed in alphabetical order on the page linked above. Not all awards are open to graduate students. Awards for which graduate students may apply include the following:
CCSGLBTI Graduate Award
John E. and Marguerite B. Corbally Award
Bassett, Chiswick, Kosobud and Stokes Award
Josephine Margraff Memorial Award
Sylvia L. Saffrin Memorial Award
Kathy Hill Cawthon Memorial Award
Chicago Bar Association Criminal Justice Graduate Award
Michael J. Piorkowski Award
Richard H. Ward Award
Sandra and Furio Alberti Memorial Award

The OIA offers a number of awards for both U.S. and international graduate students.  All awards are one-time-only and do not include a waiver from the Graduate College.  Deadlines vary by award.
 
U of I System Awards
The following are funding options for students enrolled in the University of Illinois system. Click the name of the award for further information.

The U of I System (UIC, UIUC, UIS) has entered into an agreement with CONACYT (the National Science Foundation of Mexico) to support up to 10 Mexican nationals [annually] who have been admitted into PhD programs at one of the three UI System universities.
CONACYT has agreed to support these PhD students for the first four years of their study and the UI administrative core will support the fifth year, if applicable. This is a competitive program and students must apply for the CONACYT award after having been accepted into a UIC PhD program.
The Graduate College will periodically run queries in Slate, but PhD programs should specifically reach out to eligible applicants to inform them about this funding opportunity.

For University of Illinois graduate and professional students who will be presenting papers, posters, or creative work at conferences related to issues of diversity or identity, such as those involving race, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, and national origin. There are two competitions in year, during the fall and spring terms. This award requires that each student applicant has

For University of Illinois graduate students, in the second year of study or beyond, in either biological-biomedical sciences or behavioral-social sciences, whose research involves the study of aging.
The Doolen Scholarship is a one-time award and does not include a waiver from the Graduate College .
 

As a state institution, the University of Illinois provides waivers for children of U of I employees, children of veterans of Illinois, and senior citizens.
 
Regional and Institutional Nomination Opportunities
The following are funding options for students that require departmental nomination, for Graduate College endorsement.

The campus deadline was October 3, 2019. The Graduate College can nominate three students annually.

The Midwest Association of Graduate Schools routinely has awards available that the UIC Graduate College will nominate applicants for, for consideration. Annoucements will be circulated related to these opportunities:
Thesis/Dissertation Award (closed)
Teaching Award (open - details forthcoming)

This award funds study and research in Germany. Since UIC has been invited to be a priority institution, it has an internal competition each fall to evaluate students before they are then put forward to DAAD for consideration. (Students apply on their own for  with a duration of 1-6 months.)  and  (7-10 months) have the following campus deadline (noon) by field:  Architecture (passed), Music (October 10), Performing Arts (October 15), Fine Art, Design/Visual Communication & Film (November 14), All other fields (October 25). Contact Benn Williams for more information (bwilli7<at>uic<dot>edu).

The Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fund was created for the purpose of funding advanced education and graduate study grants, which must be carried out entirely in the United States of America. The Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fellowships are to be awarded only to candidates who have outstanding undergraduate records, have demonstrated a need for financial assistance, are citizens of the United States of America, are enrolled in accredited colleges and universities in the United States and have received baccalaureate degrees. Graduate and professional students are eligible. The UIC campus deadline is January 11, 2019. For more information, .
US Federal Funding Opportunities 

Fulbright fellowships, through the U.S. State Department provides for teaching, research and study opportunities internationally for U.S. citizen students in various disciplines. Almost 200 countries are viable sites for placement. The national deadline is usually in mid-October of each, and UIC graduate students who are applying must pass through a campus evaluation first, and so must meet an internal UIC campus deadline of September 10, 2018. Graduate students and alumni from UIC's graduate programs should contact Benn Williams (), their dedicated university Fulbright Program Advisor. (Undergraduates and undergraduate alumni should contact Kim Germain in the Office of External Fellowships.) See . For a quick overview, click .

Fulbright Public Policy Fellowships, through the U.S. State Department provides for international work experience at a predetermined location. Student apply at-large for this opportunity in the early spring, but please contact the Fellowships Coordinator who has much more information and literature on this award.

The Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad (DDRA) Fellowship Program provides opportunities for full-time dissertation research abroad in modern foreign languages and area studies. Students may request funding for a period of no fewer than six months and no more than 12 months. Funds support travel expenses to and from the residence of the fellow and the country or countries of research; maintenance and dependents(s) allowances based on the location of research for the fellow and his or her dependent(s); an allowance for research-related expenses overseas; and health and accident insurance premiums. Applicants should plan to have a teaching career in the U.S. after completion of the doctorate. A  as well as the names of countries in which research is prohibited. The campus deadline is June 20, 2018.  .

This award provides for a structured language study component to graduate education, in areas related to U.S. National Security (broadly defined). Fellowships provide up to $24,000 for overseas study and immersion (minimum 12 weeks and maximum one year overseas.) Preference is given to proposals for 6+ months in duration for linguistic and cultural immersion, 3-6 months for applicants in the STEM fileds. In exchange for funding, Boren Fellows commit to working in the federal government for at least one year after graduation. Here are some some of the .
Graduate students apply for this fellowship through the Boren Embark portal in January. The Fellowships and Awards Coordinator can assist with the fellowship application. (The Boren scholarship is for undergraduates.) The next campus deadline is January 15, 2019. Please contact Benn Williams () with further questions and submission.

This is a very generious award that currently funds students at a level of $30,000 for up to three years. A variety of disciplines are eligible to apply, so please check out the website. Students apply at-large in October; the Fellowships and Awards Coordinator has more information on this award.

These are a number of options especially geared toward art history and museum studies students.

This is a great opportunity for students looking to enter the Foreign Service upon graduation.

While not the easiest sight to navigate, this outlines many of the federal options awarded to departments/programs that students can work under, along with individual grants available to students to apply at-large for consideration.
A fellowship will affect federal student loan or work-study. Typically, students with fellowships may not be permitted to borrow small amounts of federal loans due to cost of attendance regulation.  Check with the  on eligibility requirements.
If you have already received a refund for the current year in federal loans and you accept a fellowship, you may be responsible to return this refund to UIC.  Contact the  for further information.
If applying for loans and/or work-study a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) must be completed.  See the Graduate Student Guide from the  for more information.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


