










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Funding Your Education



































  




You are here»
Annual Graduate College Outstanding Thesis and Dissertation Award

 








The Annual Graduate College Outstanding Thesis and Dissertation Award is given to the most outstanding doctoral dissertation or master's thesis in each of the four Graduate Program divisions.  Each of the awards include a monetary award ($500 for master's thesis winners and $1,000 for doctoral dissertation winners).
The divisional categories are:
Arts and Humanities (AH)
Behavioral and Social Sciences (BSS)
Engineering, Mathematics, and Physical Sciences (EMPS)
Life Sciences (LS)
Recipient Lists
Fall 2017 Awardees
Outstanding Dissertation award:

LAST NAME


FIRST NAME


TITLE


DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM


DIVISION


Castellanos


Jose


Rhetorics of Loss


English


AH


Fortin


Samantha


Challenges to Body Fluid Homeostasis Recruit Mesolimbic Dopamine Signaling


Neuroscience


LS


Gursoy


Gamze


Three-Dimensional Chromosome Organization in Eukaryotes: Novel Computational Approaches


Bioinformatics


EMPS


Markovic


Alexander


Gypsy Fingers are Unique! Identity Politics and Romani Musical Performance in Vranje, Serbia


Anthropology


BSS

Outstanding Master’s Thesis award:

LAST NAME


FIRST NAME


TITLE


DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM


DIVISION


Adibfar


Leili


Aesthetic Significance and Failure in Shadi Ghadirian’s Photographic Reflections on War in Nil, Nil


Art History


AH


Annicchiarico Petruzzelli


Fausto


A Wearable Device for Non-invasive Cardiovascular Monitoring


Electrical and Computer Engineering


EMPS


Rubaci Uygur


Arin


The Impacts of Historic Preservation in Chicago: An Analysis of Chicago Landmark Districts


Urban Planning


BSS

Please join us in congratulating past award recipients: Recipients List
Eligibility
Every calendar year, each graduate program can nominate one masters and one doctoral student.  The student must have already officially graduated, and must be from a program that is within the Graduate College.
For the 2018 cycle, eligible students are those whose degree was officially awarded by UIC in Fall 2017, Spring 2018, or Summer 2018. Departments can jog their memory by cross-referencing their alumni on these lists:  
Application Procedures
The Director of Graduate Studies for a program must put forth the nomination of the outstanding thesis or dissertation.  
The program/department collects and submits the following items as a single PDF file to the Graduate College via a secure link, for review by the Awards Committee:
A completed  (fillable Word template).
A letter of nomination from the Director or Graduate Studies or Department Head discussing the student in general terms.
A letter of support from the primary advisor (i.e., the advisor responsible for the research for the thesis) that explains the impact of this research on the field.
A copy of the thesis abstract (refer to the  for format; however, the limit on length does not apply for this submission). Supplied by student.
A concise (300-word maximum) description of the significance of the research presented in the dissertation or thesis. This may be based on the abstract but it should be written in language suitable for faculty from neighboring or allied disciplines.  Supplied by student.
A current curriculum vita that includes a list of awards, honors, publications, and presentations. Supplied by student.
NORMALLY, EACH PROGRAM MAY NOMINATE ONLY ONE MASTER'S AND ONE DOCTORAL STUDENT. This year we are experimenting by allowing large graduate programs (master's + doctoral = 100+) to submit TWO master's theses and TWO dissertations. Please our enrollment reports to verify eligibility: . Please our enrollment reports:   (Updated 10/22/18).
 (Shibboleth protected)
Deadline:
When you are ready to upload the PDF file to the Graduate College, click on the  provided below and file in the correct division by 4 p.m. on October 26, 2018.
The Graduate College uses the secure University of Illinois Box for all submissions.  Box accounts are free to all UIC students, staff and faculty.
Go to  and upload your file(s) to the correct divisional folder.
Or, email your file(s) to the appropriate division:   /   /   / 
The Awards Committee of the Graduate College has established the following deadline for the program/department to submit a single PDF file of all of the required material listed above:  
October 26, 2018
	Program/Department Nomination Due to the Graduate College. No extensions will be permitted since we nominate two of these for a regional competition the following week.
December 1, 2018
	Announcement of Awards

 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


