










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Funding Your Education



































  




You are here»
Student Presenter Awards

 








To apply, print out the  and fill it out in full.  Print directly from the online application page; do not copy/paste or otherwise alter or manipulate the text.  INCOMPLETE OR ALTERED APPLICATIONS WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED.
If you are not applying for optional matching funds (see bottom of this page), do not complete that section of the form (the last section, on matching funds).
The Graduate College offers funds to deserving students to defray expenses associated with travel to present original research or scholarly work. Qualifying presentations must be at a meeting or conference of a nationally or internationally recognized scientific or scholarly society. Awards may be used for transportation, hotel, meals, and/or registration expenses. A graduate student is defined as a degree-seeking student currently enrolled in a Graduate College program. Students enrolled in the MSW, MBA, DrPH, MPH, MENG or other non Graduate College Programs are NOT eligible for these awards.  For a full list of programs in the Graduate College, please see the Graduate College Web site. Awards are contingent upon the availability of funds. Students are only eligible to receive funding once per academic year.
Application Deadlines
Applications must be submitted before the closest deadline following your trip.  Applications submitted prior to the proposed trip will be reviewed during the subsequent round of Awards. When a deadline date falls during a weekend, the deadline will be the following Monday. 
September 30    (June, July, August, September)
January 31    (October, November, December, January)
May 31    (February, March, April, May) 
Application Instructions
Applicants must be presenters of research or scholarly work at an appropriate meeting or conference.  Awards will NOT be given to individuals who are not themselves presenting, even if their name(s) appear as a coauthor of the work.  Applicants must submit proof that they will or have been presenters at the meeting or conference in the form of a printout of the program listing the applicant’s presentation from the official conference website along with the url, a copy of the cover page from a printed program and of the page that lists the applicant’s name and the date and time of the applicant’s presentation, or an official letter or e-mail addressed to  the applicant stating that he or she has been accepted as a presenter at the meeting or conference.  Applicants should also submit an abstract of the work presented. Failure to submit the required materials will disqualify your application. 
Print and complete the  and have it signed by your advisor, director of graduate studies, or department head.  If traveling by car, indicate the mileage.  Presenter Awards will not cover mileage within metropolitan Chicago.  
Send your completed application, with all required attachments to:
Susana Sylvester
Graduate College (MC 192)
612 University Hall
It is recommended that students hand deliver their application to ensure receipt prior to the deadline.  The Graduate College is not responsible for any losses or delays caused by mail service. INCOMPLETE APPLICATIONS WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED
Award Amount
Students who meet the stipulated criteria for the award and submit all of the required documents will be considered for a payment of up to $100, which does not require any cost-sharing with an advisor, department, or disciplinary college. The Graduate College will provide up to an additional $100 in matching funds with the requirement of a 1:1 match (up to $100). A request for additional Graduate College funds must include a signed statement from the advisor, director of graduate studies, or department head confirming the source of matching funds.  For examples see the table below.
 
Graduate College Minimum Award:
IF Dept./Advisor Match Is:
THEN Graduate College Match Will Be:
Total Award:
$100
$0
$0
$100
$100
$50
$50
$200
$100
$100
$100
$300
An individual may not receive more than one Student Presenter Award per fiscal year (July 1 - June 30). The Graduate College attempts to support as many qualified applicants as possible; however, awards are contingent upon the availability of funds. 
Payment Processing
The Graduate College payment will be processed as an award. Department payment, if any, will be processed through the department.  Graduate College awards may be used for transportation (outside the Chicago metropolitan area), hotel, meals and conference registration.  Upon the successful review of an application, the Graduate College will process its commitment through University Payables or the Office of Financial Aid, except for Foreign Nationals whose payment will be processed through the University Payroll.  Since all students are required to have direct deposit, the Award amount will be credited directly to your bank account. However, students who owe the University money will have the award first applied to their University account.
Other Funding Sources
The Graduate School Council has the .  See the GSC for information.
The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences has the .  You must be a PhD student in a program within Liberal Arts and Sciences.
Check your academic program and disciplinary college websites to determine if they may have travel awards.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


