










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Diversity Matters














  




You are here»
The PASSAGE Scholars Program

 








PASSAGE Scholars Program
The PASSAGE Scholars Program has been suspended until further notice. [updated: 8/2018].  
The Graduate College's (GC) new PASSAGE Scholars Program is a doctoral transition experience for historically underrepresented (African American, Latino, and Native American) students entering PhD programs in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC). The purpose of the program is to prepare participants for the rigors of graduate study in STEM disciplines at UIC. In this program, students acclimate themselves to their respective graduate programs, to the UIC campus, and to the city of Chicago - eight weeks before they begin their doctoral studies in August. The program dates are: Mid-June to Early August.  Here's an overview of the program: 
Program Benefits
A $4000 stipend for living expenses
Summer Housing (Required - Ends: TBD)
Summer Tuition Waiver and Paid Fees (2nd Summer Session)
Program Components
Transition to Graduate School
Summer rotation with a STEM faculty research mentor 
Weekly workshops led by STEM faculty and advanced doctoral candidates
Mentoring and Career Development
Participation in GC-sponsored Mentoring & Support Initiative
Participation in GC-sponsored Career Development Workshops 
Degree Progress and Placement Incentives
Up to $500 upon advancement to PhD candidacy
Up to $500 for post-graduate job interview travel
Application
The  provides specific instructions for submitting applications for the PASSAGE Scholars Program. Applications must be uploaded to the UIC Box account via the following link:
UIC Passage Scholars Program UploadThe PASSAGE Scholars Program has been suspended until further notice [updated: 8/2018].  
Directors of Graduate Study (DGS) must nominate students.  The application includes  a copy of the student’s graduate application materials submitted to the department.  In addition, the DGS's nomination letter should detail why the student should be admitted to the PASSAGE Scholars Program with specific mention of the students' strengths, weaknesses, and goals for the student summer. The nominee's personal statement should detail why they should be admitted to the PASSAGE Scholars Program, and include details about their own academic and career goals as well as their own goals for the summer.
Application Deadline and Selection 
The application deadline is: TBD.
The PASSAGE Scholars Program Advisory Committee will review applications and will announce the six students accepted for the Program by: TBD.
Contact
For more information contact Lunaire Ford, Assistant Dean:  or 312-413-2556 and/or Francisco Piña, Director of Recruitment at  or 312-413-9729.
Sponsors
The Graduate College's PASSAGE Scholars Program was sponsored by a pilot grant from the Educational Testing Service (ETS) and Council of Graduate Schools (CGS) 2012-13 Award for Innovation in Promoting Success in Graduate Education and a contribution from the UIC campus. 
Learn more about the UIC ETS/CGS Award and the Council of Graduate Schools at .
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


