










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Admissions
























  




You are here
Admissions

 








"Nationally ranked programs, award-winning faculty, and one of the most diverse graduate student bodies in the nation, all within the heart of metropolitan Chicago. I invite you to make UIC your home."
–Karen J. Colley, Dean of the Graduate College
The Admissions section of the Graduate College website is intended as a broad overview of applying to a graduate program at UIC. Applicants should consult the appropriate program/department pages of the online  for the specific admission requirements of each .
Nondiscrimination Policy
Applicants are considered on an individual basis. Admission decisions are made in compliance with the University of Illinois .
Policy on Conflicts of Interest in the Admissions Process
The Graduate College recognizes that the graduate admissions process does not, and should not, operate "blindly."  Programs and faculty frequently recruit students of whom they have direct knowledge.  Furthermore, the admission process for a doctoral program will frequently take into account the "fit" between a prospective graduate student's interests and those of the faculty in the program.  However, the admissions process should, and should be seen to, take into account only academic and programmatic consideration when admitting and recruiting students.
.
Acceptance of an Offer of Financial Support - April 15
 for more information.
Dates & Deadlines
 for more information.
Forms/applications



Applicants to the following programs should not use the above application form:
	  - Applicants to Graduate College programs in the  (Accounting MS, Business Administration PhD, Management Information Systems MS and PhD, and Real Estate MA), and non-Graduate College programs (MBA), .
	  - Applicants to Graduate College programs in the  (MS, MHA, PhD) and non-Graduate College programs (MPH, DrPH), .
 (for international students only)
Degree admission
 for more information.






Nondegree admission
 for more information.
Changing from nondegree to degree
 for more information.
Changing programs/Adding a second program
 for more information.
Establish Net ID and Enterprise ID
 for more information.
Auditors (Course visitor status):
Graduate students, as well as persons not registered at the University of Illinois at Chicago, may audit courses with the permission of the instructor and Dean of the college offering the course (not the Graduate College).
Certain restrictions apply. For instructions, refer to .
The Visitor's Permit should be obtained at the Office of Admissions and Records. Other than the Visitor's Permit, no other registration action is required. 
University Regulations





Tuition & Fees


Office of Graduate and Professional Admissions
Althought the official admission decision for applicants to graduate programs within the Graduate College lies within the jursdiction of the Graduate College, the processing of the decision resides in the Office of Graduate and Professional Admissions, which is not part of the Graduate College.  The Graduate College works closely with graduate adademic programs and the Office of Graduate and Professional Admissions.   for more information.
Transfer of Credit



 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


