










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Admissions
























  




You are here»
Degree Admission

 








Application Procedure:  Applicants to graduate study at UIC must use the . Applications and supporting credentials should be submitted as early as possible, but no loater than the published dealines for the program to which you are applying. Applications received after the deadline will not be accepted. A few days after you submit your application, you will be emailed information about uploading supporting documents via a link provided.
Some graduate programs have application deadlines that are earlier than the University deadline, and some admit students only in specific terms (e.g. fall term only). Prospective applicants should contact the program of interest for information on current deadlines, as some programs may close earlier than the .
Please note the following:
You must upload transcripts. Unofficial transcripts will be used to evaluate admission eligibility.  If you are admitted, official transcripts will be requested at that time, along with submission instructions.
If your program requires letters of recommendation, you will need to provide email addresses for your recommenders.
Program-specific requirements (e.g. writing samples, personal statements, resumes, letters of purpose, letters of recommendation, etc.) must be submitted using the document upload process, unless specifically stated otherwise by the program to which you are applying.  (Official test scores for required exams, such as GRE, TOEFL, or IELTS, should be arranged to be sent from the testing institution directly to the Univesity of Illinois at Chicago; however, you may upload unofficial copies.)
Instructions may be read at the link provided above. 
Admission recommendations cannot be made until all required documents have been received.
Additional information for: (Full or Limited Admission)
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


