










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Admissions
























  




You are here»»
Domestic Admission

 








1.  Applicants to graduate study at UIC must use the . Applications and supporting credentials should be submitted as early as possible. Applications received after the deadline will not be accepted. Note that some graduate programs have application deadlines that are earlier than the University deadline, and some admit students only in specific terms (e.g. fall term only). Prospective applicants should contact the program of interest for information on current deadlines, as some programs may close earlier than the . 
Applicants must upload all supporting documents via the link provided.  Please refer to  for information.  A few days after you have submitted the online application you will receive an email with instructions on the upload process.
Please note the following:
Applicants must use the  (see number 2 below).
A non-refundable application fee of $70 (U.S. currency) is required to have your application reviewed.. This fee is waived for applicants seeking readmission who have been previously enrolled at UIC as a graduate student, and employees of UIC.
An international credential evaluation fee of $50 is assessed on any applicant presenting international course work requiring an evaluation regardless of residency.
You must upload unofficial copies of transcripts in English.  If you are admitted, official documents will be requested at that time, along with submission instructions.
If your program requires letters of recommendation, you will need to provide email address for each of your recommenders.
Program-specific requirements (e.g. writing samples, personal statements, resumes, letters of purpose, letters of recommendation, etc.) must be submitted using the document upload process (see link above) unless specifically directed to you otherwise by the program to which you are applying.  (GRE, TOEFL, IELTS and other test scores must be sent directly from the testing service to UIC. UIC's Institutional Codes are 1851 for the GRE and the TOEFL; however, you may also upload unofficial copies.)
For more information about the application process, please see .
Admission recommendations cannot be made until all required documents have been received.
2.   Applicants to professional degree programs that are not part of the Graduate College (Business Administration [], Doctor of Nursing Practice ], Engineering [], Doctor of Occupational Therapy [], Public Health [], and Social Work []), applicants to Graduate College programs within the  (Accounting [MS], Business Administration [PhD], Finance [MS], and Management Information Systems [MS, PhD]), and applicants to Graduate College programs within the  [MS, MHA, PhD] should follow the admission procedures of those units.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


