










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Admissions
























  




You are here»»
Admission Status

 








Full Status
The Graduate College minimum requirements for full status degree admission are as follows.  Note that the program to which you are applying may require other documents, such as letters of recommendation, test scores (GRE, etc.), writing samples, personal statements, etc.
Prior Degrees: Except for seniors at UIC (see  ), a baccalaureate or its equivalent from an accredited college or university.
Transcripts: Required from all institutions where the applicant earned the last 60 semester (90 quarter) hours of credit toward the baccalaureate degree and from all institutions where post baccalaureate work has been done.
Grade Point Average: At least 2.75 (A=4.00) for the final 60 semester hours (90 quarter hours) of undergraduate study, including all of the work taken in the quarter or semester in which the student began the final 60 semester hours of undergraduate study. The cumulative grade point average obtained in all work completed beyond the baccalaureate will also be computed and considered in the admissions decision.
Tests Required:Applicants whose native language is not English must take the either the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS). The test score cannot be more than two years old. For TOEFL, a minimum score of 550 (paper-based), 213 (computer-based), or 80 (internet iBT) with subscores no lower than 21 (Writing, 20 (Speaking), 17 (Listening) and 19 (Reading) is required.  For IELTS a score of 6.5 overall with no score lower than 6.0 in each of the four subsections is required.  Many programs have a higher minimum.  No other tests are required by the Graduate College, but may be required by individual programs.
Letters of Recommendation: Not required by the Graduate College.
Personal Statement: Not required by the Graduate College.
Other Requirements: Recommendation for admission by the graduate program to which application is made and by the Dean of the Graduate College.
The above requirements are the minimum Graduate College requirements for admission as a degree student; most programs have additional requirements. Consult the appropriate section(s) of this catalog for the specific admission requirements of each program.
Limited Status
Limited status is a probationary status for degree students who have not met all of the admission requirements, such as those who: have less than a 2.75 undergraduate grade point average; have specified course deficiencies to be removed; must submit additional credentials required by the program (such as letters of recommendation or admissions test scores); or are UIC seniors within 8 semester hours of earning their baccalaureate. A department can recommend that a student be admitted on limited status to the Graduate College, but the Graduate College makes the final decision. For applicants to be admitted to limited status, the graduate program will recommend to the Graduate College specific conditions for admission. Graduate College approval is required for admission of limited status students. Students can be admitted on limited status for no more than two semesters (including summer) or 16 semester hours, whichever occurs earlier. Graduate programs may specify shorter time limits. If the conditions are not met within the time limit, the program will notify the Graduate College and the student will be dismissed from the Graduate College.
Graduate Study by UIC Undergraduate Seniors
With the approval of the graduate program, the undergraduate or professional college, and the Graduate College, UIC students in their last year of study for an undergraduate degree may be admitted to the Graduate College if they are within 8 semester hours of earning the baccalaureate at the time of matriculation. These students will be admitted on limited status for no more than two terms in residence, pending completion of the baccalaureate. These students register as graduate students and are eligible for fellowships, assistantships, and graduate tuition waivers. Courses used to fulfill undergraduate degree requirements are transferred back to the undergraduate college and cannot be applied to a graduate degree.
Applicants who are admitted to limited status pending completion of their bachelor’s degree must be awarded the undergraduate degree within two terms in residence. If this condition is not satisfied, graduate admission is cancelled and the student is transferred back to the undergraduate college.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


