










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Admissions
























  




You are here»
Tuition, Fees and Other Charges

 








All students are assessed tuition and fees. The amount varies with the number of credit hours for which the student registers and according to status as a resident or nonresident of Illinois. Residence classification is determined by the information given on the application for admission and other credentials. Refer to the  maintained by the Office of Admissions and Records for information on current rates.
The Service Fee, General Fee, and Health Service Fee are mandatory fees that support the following: Circle Center and Illini Union, Student Programs, Student Counseling, Intramural Sports and Recreation, Intercollegiate Athletics, Bonded Indebtedness, Student Health Service, and Pharmacy.
Eligible graduate students new to UIC who are assessed the Student Health Insurance Fee as part of their tuition are automatically enrolled in CampusCare, a comprehensive package of supplemental health benefits designed to provide protection against accidents and unexpected illnesses. Students who present evidence of comparable insurance coverage in force may "waive out" of the CampusCare program. Information about the waiver process is available at the CampusCare websites through the "portal" address at .
Encumbrance of Registration and Records
Students who owe any money to the University will have a hold placed on their academic records. This hold precludes students from registering for any subsequent terms. In addition, transcripts will not be released until the student's account has been paid in full.
Past due accounts are subject to a FINANCE CHARGE at the ANNUAL PERCENTAGE rate of 18% (1.5 per month on the unpaid balance of each month). Additionally, a LATE FEE of $2.00 per month will be added to all past due accounts.
Please note, the University of Illinois at Chicago does refer past due accounts for collection. Where appropriate, the University will authorize legal action to effect settlement of an account. Students will be liable for all reasonable collection costs, including attorney fees and other charges necessary for the collection of a past due account.
Tuition Exemptions
Students may be exempted from one or more of the following charges if they qualify under the stated conditions:
Tuition is waived for:
1. Holders of tuition-waiver scholarships.
2. All academic employees of the university (except graduate assistants) on salaried appointment for at least 25 percent of full-time service. Such appointments require service for not less than three-fourths of the number of days defined for the term.
3. Teaching, research, and graduate assistants on appointment for at least 25 percent but not more than 67 percent of full-time service. Such appointments require service for not less than three-fourths of the number of days defined for the term.
4. Support staff employees of the university in status appointments or in appointments designed to qualify for status in an established class (e.g., trainee, intern) who register in regular university courses not to exceed Range II tuition in semester if on full-time appointment, and not to exceed Range III tuition if on a 50 to 99 percent time appointment, provided they (1) meet conditions and eligibility for admission as prescribed by the Office of Admissions and Records, (2) not be students as defined in Civil Service Rule 7.7c, and (3) have approval from their employing departments for enrollment and a makeup schedule to cover any time in course attendance during their regular work schedule. Employees whose total registration is in a higher range than that authorized by their tuition waiver pay only the difference between the waiver authorization and the higher range in which their total registration places them.
5. Support staff employees in a status, learner, trainee, apprentice, or provisional appointment who enroll in regular courses directly related to their University employment. The number of credit hours per semester may not exceed Range II. Employees must have made application and received prior approval for enrollment as required by procedures issued by the director of support staff personnel and set forth in Policy and Rules-Nonacademic.
6. Holders of graduate tuition-and-service-fee waivers awarded by the Graduate College.
7. Holders of grants or contracts from outside sponsors that provide payments to cover the total costs of instruction.
8. Cooperating teachers and administrators who receive assignment of practice teachers or TESOL interns. Such persons who register in university courses are exempted from tuition, the service fee, and the general fee for one semester or summer session for each semester of service rendered. The exemption shall apply to the semester or summer session of registration, as designated by the student, that is concurrent with or following the term of service, but must be applied no later than one calendar year from the end of the term of service. Concurrent registration on more than one campus of the university or in university extramural courses constitutes one semester or session of eligibility for exemption.
9. Persons registered in noncredit seminars only. University employees registered at the request of their departments in noncredit courses especially established to improve the work of the employee.
10. University of Illinois retirees.
11. Teacher of the year.
The nonresident portion of tuition (if the enrollee is subject to payment of tuition) is waived for:
1. All staff members (academic, including teaching and research assistants, administrative, or permanent nonacademic) on appointment for at least 25 percent of full time with the University.
2. The faculties of state-supported institutions of higher education in Illinois holding appointments of at least one-quarter time.
3. The professional staff in private and public elementary and secondary schools in Illinois.
4. The spouses and dependent children of those listed in 1 and 2. (Dependent children are those who qualify as dependents for federal income tax purposes.)
5. Persons actively serving in one of the armed forces of the United States who are stationed and present in Illinois in connection with that service.
6. The spouses and dependent children of those listed in 5, as long as they remain stationed, present, and living in Illinois.
Regulations Governing the Determination of Residency Status for Admission and Assessment of Student Tuition
In all cases where records establish that the person does not meet the requirements for Resident status as defined in these regulations the Nonresident status shall be assigned. Exceptions to the regulations are clearly indicated.
Residency Determination
Evidence for determination of residence status of each applicant for admission to the university shall be submitted to the director of the Office of Admissions and Records at the time of application for admission. A student may be reclassified at any time by the university upon the basis of additional or changed information. However, if the student is classified in error as a resident student, the change in tuition shall be applicable beginning with the term following the reclassification; if the student is classified in error as a nonresident, the change in tuition shall be applicable to the term in which the reclassification occurs, provided the student has filed a written request for a review in accordance with these regulations.
Complete information is available from the  website or by contacting the director of the Office of Admissions and Records:
Office of Graduate and Professional Admissions (MC 018) 
Student Services Building
University of Illinois at Chicago
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1130 
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


