










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Student Info





















































  




You are here»»
Tuition & Fees

 











Service Fee
The service fee is waived for:
All staff members of the University who are on appointment for at least 25 percent of full-time service, provided the appointments require service for not less than three-fourths of the number of days defined for the term.
  
Holders of graduate tuition-and-fee waivers awarded by the Graduate College.
  
Students registered in absentia.
  
Students registered only in courses taught off campus.
  
Holders of grants or contracts from outside sponsors if the service fee is charged to the contract or to grant funds.
  
Cooperating teachers and administrators who meet the qualifications of item 6 of Tuition Exemptions.
  
Persons registered only in noncredit seminars.
  
University employees, registered at the request of their departments, in noncredit courses for the purpose of improving their work.
  
Emeriti.
Definitions
For fee assessment purposes, a staff appointment must require service for not less than three-fourths of the number of days defined for the academic term. Specific dates marking completion of service for three-fourths of the term shall be established by the chancellor or the chancellor’s designee on each campus. Staff tuition-and-fee privileges do not apply to students employed on an hourly basis in either an academic or nonacademic capacity or to persons on leave without pay.
For fee assessment purposes, a permanent nonacademic employee is defined as a person who has been assigned to an established, permanent, and continuous nonacademic position and who is employed for at least 25 percent of full-time. University employees appointed to established civil service positions whose rate of pay is determined by negotiation, prevailing rates, or union affiliation are entitled to the same tuition-and-fee privileges accorded other staff members under the regulations.
Students who resign a staff appointment, or whose appointment is cancelled before they have rendered service for at least three-fourths of the number of days defined for the term, become subject to the full amount of the appropriate tuition and fees for that term unless they withdraw from university classes at the same time the appointment becomes void or unless they file clearance for graduation within one week after the appointment becomes void.
Course Fee
This fee is assessed of all auditors who are not in Range I in the tuition and fee schedule. UIC students registered for at least 12 semester hours and university employees who are eligible for a tuition waiver do not have to pay the Course Auditor’s fee. Contact the Office of Admissions and Records for current fee information.
CampusCare - Student Health Benefit Program
Fee automatically assessed with tuition. Online forms and deadline dates to waive coverage, reinstate coverage, add or drop dependents are available on the CampusCare websites available through . Please note that CampusCare communicates with students using their official UIC e-mail address.
All new freshmen, transfer, and graduate students who are assessed the Student Health Insurance Fee as part of their tuition are automatically enrolled in CampusCare - a comprehensive package of supplemental health benefits designed to provide protection against accidents and unexpected illnesses. CampusCare covers health services such as inpatient and outpatient hospitalization, prescription drugs, physical therapy, home health care, mental health/substance abuse services, and emergency services.
Students who show proof of comparable health insurance coverage may "opt out" of the CampusCare program by submitting the online Waiver Form by the published deadline.
In addition to CampusCare, all enrolled students have access to a variety of preventive health care services, health education and promotion, and outreach services provided under the Student Health Program, at the Counseling Center, and at the Wellness Center. All students are assessed a Health Service Fee on their tuition statement to cover these services. Students may not "opt out" of this fee. Please note that CampusCare does NOT administer services provided under the Health Service Fee.
Key Features of the CampusCare Program
All covered services must be provided or authorized by a CampusCare Health Center Physician and provided at the University of Illinois Medical Center and Clinics or a contracted CampusCare Network Provider, unless they meet the Emergency Care guidelines or as preauthorized by the CampusCare Medical Director or designee.
All services provided outside a designated CampusCare Health Center require authorization (a referral) prior to receiving services. Unauthorized services provided elsewhere, or by a non-CampusCare provider, are outside of CampusCare's financial responsibility and will be the enrolled member's full financial responsibility.
Students are responsible for copayments for physician office visits, mental health and substance abuse services, and for covered prescription drugs. There are no deductibles and no claim forms to complete.
Waiving Coverage
Students who have equivalent health insurance coverage may opt out of the CampusCare program by submitting the online Waiver Form by the designated deadline. Once approved, a waiver remains in effect unless and until a Reinstatement Application Form is submitted. Students with approved waivers DO NOT need to submit a waiver each term.
Students waiving out of the program will be asked to provide the name of the insurance company, member identification number, group number, and the customer service or member services contact phone number. CampusCare will verify that the coverage is equivalent and provide e-mail notification of acceptance or denial of the waiver request. Waivers denied due to inadequate coverage and those submitted after the published deadline will be final.
Dependent Coverage
The CampusCare program is available to qualified family members such as spouses and unmarried children. Students enrolled in CampusCare may enroll eligible dependents by completing the online Dependent Enrollment Form before the published deadline. Students who wish to dis-enroll dependents can do so by submitting a Dependent Dis-enrollment Form. Dependent eligibility information is available on the CampusCare website.
After the published deadline, students participating in CampusCare may make the following changes in coverage by submitting the appropriate forms and paying the required premium for: 1) a new spouse and/or any eligible children of a new spouse within 31 days of marriage; 2) a child pending finalization of a legal adoption or a newly adopted child within 31 days of filing of the legal documents or of the legal adoption; and 3) a newborn within 31 days following birth. Students adding this type of coverage should contact a Student Services Representative for assistance.
Reinstatement of Benefits
Students who have previously opted out of the CampusCare program may reapply for coverage by submitting the online Reinstatement Application Form by the published deadline. Students participating in CampusCare may also reinstate eligible dependents by submitting the Dependent Enrollment Form.
Summer Coverage
Students enrolled in CampusCare for Spring 2006 who register for the Summer 2006 term will be automatically enrolled in CampusCare (including enrolled dependents) and assessed the Student Health Insurance Fee for continuing coverage through the first day of the Fall 2006 term.
Students who are enrolled in CampusCare for Fall 2005 but take a "leave" from school for Spring 2006 (do not enroll in class and pay no tuition or fees) are not eligible for summer coverage unless they register for the Summer 2006 term and pay the Student Health Insurance Fee.
Summer Coverage When Not Enrolled
Students enrolled in CampusCare for a Spring term may purchase coverage for the summer break even if they do not enroll in summer classes. Students enrolled in CampusCare for Spring 2006 who do not register for the Summer 2006 term may purchase summer coverage by submitting the online Summer Continuation Enrollment Form by the published deadline and paying the Student Health Insurance Fee, which is billed to the student's account. Students who wish to enroll dependents for summer continuation coverage must ALSO submit the Dependent Enrollment Form.
Students who are not enrolled in CampusCare for Spring 2006 and do not register for the Summer 2006 term are not eligible to purchase summer coverage.
Coverage Dates and Premium Rates
Coverage under CampusCare begins on the first day of the term and ends on the first day of the subsequent term. Premium rate information for students and dependents is available on the CampusCare website. The Student Health Insurance Fee premium is billed with tuition and payable in full unless a waiver is approved. Students enrolled in academic programs that begin earlier than the term dates identified will be assessed an additional fee to cover the extended benefit coverage period.
Enrollment Period/Forms Submission Deadline: September 18, 2005
The deadline to waive coverage, reinstate coverage, enroll dependents, or dis-enroll dependents for the Fall term is Sunday, September 18, 2005. The Waiver Form, Reinstatement Application Form, Dependent Enrollment Form, and Dependent Dis-enrollment Form are available online at the CampusCare website. Forms must be submitted online. Visit your campus website through the "portal" address: 
Students in Study Abroad Programs
Students studying abroad are required to purchase international health insurance coverage specifically designed to cover services provided outside the United States.
CampusCare, which only covers health services provided in the United States, is also available to students participating in recognized Study Abroad Programs. In addition to the required international health insurance coverage, students studying abroad may continue or reinstate CampusCare coverage for their term abroad to provide domestic health coverage in the event they need it.
Students participating in a recognized Study Abroad Program who have not previously waived CampusCare coverage will be automatically enrolled (along with any enrolled dependents) in CampusCare and assessed the Student Health Insurance Fee.
Students who do not wish to have concurrent domestic health benefits coverage under CampusCare during the term they are abroad must submit a Waiver Form before the published deadline.
Students who previously opted out of CampusCare but wish to have concurrent domestic coverage under CampusCare during their term abroad should submit a Reinstatement Application Form before the published deadline. Students may also enroll eligible dependents by submitting the Dependent Enrollment Form.
Questions regarding international health insurance coverage may be directed to the UIC Study Abroad Office at 312-413-7662.
Students Who Are Employees of the University
A person's academic status with the University, not their employment status, determines what tuition and fees are assessed when they enroll in a class at the University. Regardless of a person's employment status, all newly enrolled students at UIC who are assessed the Student Health Insurance Fee along with their tuition are automatically enrolled in CampusCare.
The University will automatically waive the tuition and certain fees for eligible students who work at UIC but this wavier does NOT include the Student Health Insurance Fee for CampusCare. Not all individuals employed by the University are eligible for health coverage under the University's Employee Benefit Program and may want coverage under CampusCare.
Students who have health insurance coverage through their employment status with the University can waive CampusCare coverage by submitting the Waiver Form by the published enrollment deadline at the beginning of the term for which they are enrolled.
A student with health insurance coverage under the Employee Benefit Program who does not waive CampusCare coverage during the enrollment period at the beginning of the term in which they are enrolled will NOT receive a refund for the Student Health Insurance Fee premium. In this situation the student may access some benefits under CampusCare such as reduced fee-for-service dental, vision, and hearing benefits available to CampusCare members as well as the life and accidental death and dismemberment benefit.
Late Registrants
Students who register after the 10th day of class for the Fall or Spring term and have not previously waived CampusCare coverage will be automatically enrolled in the program and assessed the full Student Health Insurance Fee. CampusCare does not pro-rate the fee for late registrants. Dependents, however, are NOT automatically enrolled.
Students who register after the 10th day of class but before the CampusCare forms submission deadline of September 18, 2005 have an opportunity to waive out of the program, reinstate benefits, enroll or dis-enroll dependents by submitting the appropriate form by the deadline.
Students who register late and after the CampusCare forms submission deadline of September 18, 2005 do NOT have an opportunity to waive coverage, enroll dependents, or make other enrollment choices.
The effective date of coverage is the date on which the late registration is entered and processed in the student records system by the Office of Records and Registration.
Continuing Coverage
CampusCare is only available to students who are enrolled at UIC, pay tuition, and pay the Student Health Insurance Fee. Therefore, CampusCare does not offer coverage to individuals who graduate or who take a "leave of absence" from school. Students who are enrolled in CampusCare and plan to take a semester off should visit the CampusCare website for information about other sources of health coverage for the time they are away from school.
CampusCare Health Center Physicians
Chicago: The UIC Department of Family Medicine is the designated CampusCare Health Center location for participating students attending the Chicago campus. Physicians and nurse practitioners at the UIC Department of Family Medicine will provide, coordinate, and authorize services for participating students and their enrolled dependents. Referrals are required for covered services provided outside the UIC Department of Family Medicine.
Peoria and Rockford: Provider networks are in place in the Peoria and Rockford areas for students attending those campuses. The CampusCare websites for Peoria and Rockford provide a list of CampusCare Health Center locations and providers in each area. Referrals are required for covered services provided outside a CampusCare Health Center location.
Additional Benefits
Students and dependents enrolled in CampusCare have access to additional benefits offered through United Health Programs and Standard Reliance Insurance Company at no additional premium cost. Information about additional Dental, Vision, Hearing, Prescription Drug Discounts, Life Insurance, and Accidental Death and Dismemberment benefits is available at the CampusCare website.
Member ID Cards and Other Information
Students participating in CampusCare may print their Member ID Card (and those for covered dependents) from the CampusCare website. CampusCare does NOT mail member identification cards to students.
The CampusCare website offers detailed information about covered benefits, premium rates, CampusCare Health Center locations and physicians, how to access care, how to contact CampusCare, FAQs and more. Students are encouraged to access their campus-specific website through the "portal" address at .
Late Registration Fine
This fine is levied against all students who complete registration after the deadline. In extenuating circumstances, students may receive the approval of the dean of the college to register after the tenth day of the semester or the fifth day of the summer session. Consult the  for current registration deadlines and late registration fine information.
Student-to-Student Fee
While all students will be assessed this mandatory fee at registration, refunds are available upon request. A request for refund must be supported by a confirmed schedule and university photo ID Card during the first two weeks of the term. This is processed through SINC, located on the first floor of CCC. West side students may pick up a credit form in Room 111 Marshfield Building.
General Fee
This fee is not waived with a tuition and fee waiver.
Replacement Photo-Identification Card Fee
This fee is assessed if the card is lost or destroyed.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


