










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Admissions
























  




You are here»
Changing Programs/Adding a Second Program

 








Currently enrolled graduate students and non-registered students with "continuing student" status who wish to change to, add a second program, or change between master's and doctoral levels within a program, must complete a Request for Change of Graduate Program Form.  If used to add a second degree program the form needs to specify whether it is an , or simply a concurrent program. The completed form must arrive in the Graduate College at least two weeks prior to the term for which the change is requested, however, most programs have earlier . UIC international students may use the program's domestic student deadline, unless the Office of International Services or the program advise otherwise.
The form must be signed by both the old and new (or second) programs.  The Office of International Services must also sign for international students on an F-1, J-1 or J-2 visa. Students should meet with the director of graduate studies of the new program to discuss procedures, deadlines, and credentials required. A Petition for Credit Towards An Advanced Degree (transfer credit) listing all previously completed courses at UIC to be accepted by the new program should be attached to the Request for Change of Graduate Program Form, if applicable.
Currently enrolled graduate students and non-registered students with "continuing student" status who wish to transfer between the Graduate College (all programs), the School of Public Health (MPH, DrPH), the MBA Program, the Master of Engineering (professional MENG), and the Master of Social Work Program (MSW) must also use the Request for Change of Graduate Program Form.
While the form may not be used to transfer between levels (e.g. degree-seeking to non-degree, or graduate to professional), an exception is for changing to, or adding as a 2nd program, a  (which are classified as non-degree).
Complete instructions and deadline information are listed below. The form is available from your academic program office, the Graduate College, or the Graduate College website.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


