










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








TA Enrichment












  




You are here»
Practicum in College Teaching Course - GC 594

 








The Graduate College offers Practicum in College Teaching, GC 594.  The instructor is , who developed this course after seeing the need for teaching assistants to be mentored on teaching techniques. 
GC 594 is designed for students across all disciplines.
The course is open to degree-seeking students in the Graduate College, with priority given to those students who have taken , and with active TA appointments. The course carries 3 hours of credit, runs for 16 weeks and is graded standard A-F.
GC 594 is eligible to be used as a free elective, although all programs may not allow the credit to be used towards degree requirements.  Students are advised to verify whether or not credit may be used towards degree requirements with their Director of Graduate Studies, if this is a concern.
Course Objectives
The purpose of the course is to provide a supervised field-based practical experience that progresses from the College of Foundations Course (GC593), i.e. from theory and content learning to application, analysis, evaluation and creation of an effective teaching approach to undergraduate education.
Course Outcomes
Course Learning Outcomes:
Develop, design, and delivery of a college course.
Reflect on appropriate strategies to help students learn effectively.
Evaluate their own teaching effectiveness and creatively revise their approaches for improvement.
Document their development as college teacher - scholar through preparation of a well-designed teaching portfolio.
Course Learning Outcome Assessment Methods:
30% Teaching Portfolio
50% Demonstrated teaching effectiveness
20% Teaching reflection
Course Topics
(subject to change)  
Week 1: Course Orientation. Defining college teaching roles and effectiveness
Week 2: Self-assessment & teaching portfolio review
Week 3: Outcomes-led teaching
Week 4: Motivating your students
Week 5: Video analysis and feedback
Week 6: Control-creativity paradox
Week 7: Office hours and tutorials
Week 8: Matching teaching methods with learning outcomes
Week 9: Making the lecture a learning experience
Week 10: Video analysis and feedback
Week 11: Leading  effective discussions & questioning techniques for discussion and assessment
Week 12: Learning in groups
Week 13: Inquiry-guiding learning & The case method
Week 14: Quantitative reasoning and problem solving in the sciences
Week 15: Classroom assessment techniques (CATS)
Final Week-Week 16: Video analysis and self-assessment comparison

 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


