










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Faculty/Staff






























  




You are here»
Graduate Mentoring Awards

 








The Graduate College is pleased to invite nominations for the Seventh Annual Graduate Mentoring Awards.
Graduate Mentoring Awards are designed to encourage and award excellence and innovation in all aspects of graduate mentoring. Each year the Graduate College will provide up to four awards of $2,000 each per year.
Recipients
2018 Winners:
Izzet Coskun, Professor, Mathematics, Statitistics, & Compuer Science
Claire Decoteau, Associate Professor and Director of Graduate Studies, Sociology
Robert Johnston, Professor and Director of the Teaching of History Program, History


Eligibility
Nominees must be full members of the graduate faculty at UIC, actively engaged in the direction of graduate students in masters or doctoral programs. Nominees must have been on the faculty at UIC for at least four academic years. Winners of the Graduate Mentoring Award will not be eligible for the award again for five academic years.
Criteria
Given the immense academic diversity on campus, there will be no single set of criteria appropriate to all nominees. Nominators are encouraged to think creatively about the many and diverse ways in which faculty can contribute to the development and support of graduate students. Examples of the kinds of contributions that might be rewarded with a Graduate Mentoring Award include, but are not limited to:
Promoting intellectual growth through graduate teaching and thesis direction.
Fostering the development of graduate students' communication skills in written and oral presentations.
Effective direction of dissertations, including timely evaluation, guidance and feedback on dissertations.
Being accessible to students for discussion of intellectual or professional questions and concerns, communicating with them effectively and respectfully, and encouraging such interactions.
Educating students in the culture of the appropriate disciplines, helping them to network with other professionals.
Providing career counseling and placement assistance including possibilities outside of the academy.
Actively helping students to progress to degree in a timely fashion and to develop the skills necessary to professional success.
Excellence and innovation in teaching, including the development of interdisciplinary or non-traditional initiatives.
Promoting a climate of respect and collegiality that enhance the graduate experience and increase chances of success.
Nomination Procedures
Each department may nominate one candidate for a mentoring award each year. Departments are strongly encouraged to devise a selection procedure that includes graduate students and alumni. Nominations are submitted to the Graduate College via secure Box link. The documents should be submitted as a single PDF file in the following order:
The  
The nominee's CV
A statement (not more than 1200 words) written by the nominee outlining his or her approach to Graduate mentoring
A list of all graduate courses taught by the nominee in the past four years
A list of all graduate students supervised by the nominee in the past four years and the status of their projects
A list of the nominee's advisees who have graduated in the past four years and information about their current employment
A description of other activities though which the nominee has contributed to graduate education at UIC
A letter of support from the department head or DGS
A letter of support from a current graduate student
A letter of support from a recent alumna or alumnus (of the past four years)
A description of the process by which the nominee was selected
We recommend that departments begin the selection process as soon as possible to solicit opinions from graduate students, alumni, and faculty and provide adequate time to prepare the application. Letter writers should be lined up by February 1st, 2019. 
Selection Procedure
Nomination packets will be reviewed by the Graduate College Awards Committee. 
Deadlines and Announcement of Awards
Mentoring Awards Nomination PDF file upload due to the Graduate College: March 1st, 2019
Announcement of Recipients: April 17th, 2019
Reception Honoring Recipients: (date forthcoming)
Submission Instructions
Save the forms/documents listed above as one single PDF per nominee.  
The PDF files should be saved using the following naming convention:
MA_YearofAward_DepartmentNameAbbreviation_NomineeLastNameFirstInitial.pdf 
Example - AY 2018-2019 nominee from History named William Smith:MA_2019_Hist_SmithW.pdf 
Do not have spaces in the pdf name.  There is a 2GB size limit on each individual file.  
When you are ready to upload PDF file to the Graduate College, use the correct Box email address below.
The file is secure and only the owners of the Box account (i.e. Graduate College staff) have access to veiw the contents of the file.
Email Mentoring Award Nomination PDF Files to the Graduate College by Friday, March 1st, 2019 via Box. 
Email Arts & Humanities submissions to 
Email Behavioral & Social Sciences submissions to  
Email Engineering, Mathematics, and Physical Sciences submissions to 
Email Life Sciences submissions to 
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


