










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Faculty/Staff






























  




You are here»
Student Recruitment & Admission Information for Faculty/Staff

 








Recruitment Resources
Click here for various  (Bluestem protected)
U of I Admissions Reform
 (Bluestem protected)
[last updated 03 November 2009]
Enrollment Deposits
Current .
Enrollment Management Suite
UIC is in the process of purchasing and implementing an Enrollment Management Suite for undergraduate and graduate student management.
 (Bluestem protected)
Revised GRE General Test
Educational Testing Services (ETS) will be revising the GRE General Test.  ETS states that the new test will be launched August 1, 2011.  This will impact some applicants for Fall 2011, although later terms will show heavier usage.  Test takers will have a free prep test available to them beginning July 2010.  For more information see .
Changes to I-20 Process

18 November 2009
Application for Student Admission - Information, Form & Changes
 - deadlines, requirements, contact information, etc.
	(Bluestem protected)
 - deadlines, requirements, contact information, etc.
 - deadlines, requirements, contact information, etc.
 - deadlines, requirements, contact information, etc.
UIC Connect
UIC Connect is an informational site for admitted applicants to become familiar with UIC and to take them from admitted status through registered student. 
 (Bluestem protected)
 (Bluestem protected)
 (Bluestem Protected)
GradView: Application for Student Admission - Email Notification/View & Search/View
GradView provides authorized faculty and staff to receive email notification when an applicant submits a online (but not paper) application to your program(s).  The email contains a url where all data from the individual's application is available for viewing and printing. 
In addition, authorized faculty and staff may also search by various parameters and view/print all submitted web applications to their program(s).  
For:
Information on email notification/view of student web applications submitted to UIC
Information on the search/view function of student web applications submitted to UIC, including url
Current listing of netids and email addresses, by program code, for the notification/view and search/view of student web application functions
Access email notification/view and search/view information here.
TOEFL Next Generation TOEFL-iBT
TOEFL-iBT 
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
The International English Language Testing System (IELTS) is used extensively in Europe, Asia and Australia, and more frequently in the United States.  Effective March 13, 2009 UIC will accept IELTS results, in addition to TOEFL. 
IELTS
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


