














Search UIC HR

xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-16"?

BenefitsPayrollHelp us to improve this page. »  » Graduate AssistantsGraduate AssistantsWhat is a Graduate Assistant?
Graduate Assistants are graduate students who are employed at the University. There are three types of roles graduate assistants perform while at the University.
Graduate Assistant (GA)
Duties are primarily in support of, but are not limited to, administrative functions, such as: clerical support, technical support, equipment or facilities management, translation, etc.
Graduate Research Assistant (RA)
Research activities may include, but are not limited to, applying and mastering research concepts, practices, or methods of scholarship, such as: conducting experiments or research, organizing or analyzing data, presenting findings, etc.
Graduate Teaching Assistant (TA)
Duties are primarily in support of, but are not limited to, instruction and educational services, such as: leading class discussions, holding lectures, design of course materials, exam preparation, proctoring and grading assignments or exams, etc.

Where Do I Apply For A Graduate Assistantship?
To be eligible for a graduate assistantship, students must be enrolled in a graduate degree program at the University of Illinois at Chicago. Students apply for and obtain most assistantships through their graduate programs. For information on available assistantships, contact the Director of Graduate Studies in your academic program.
All students admitted to a master’s program* or in a doctor of philosophy, doctor of arts, doctor of education or doctor of occupational therapy program at UIC are enrolled in the Graduate College.

* Except the Master of Business Administration, the Master of Engineering, the Master of Public Health, or the Master of Social Work. Information on these programs is available through the , the , the , and the .
The Human Resources Job Board has listings for assistantships that are open to the general graduate student population.

About Working In A Graduate Assistantship
Terms Of Employment
The Graduate College and UIC Human Resources provide employment policy guidance to graduate student employees in the Graduate Assistantship HR Resource Guide.

Graduate Assistants (GA) and Teaching Assistants (TA) who have a total full time equivalent (FTE) between 25% and 67% are represented by the Graduate Employee Organization (GEO) and certain terms are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

Tuition Waivers
Graduate Assistants may be eligible for a tuition waiver based on the FTE of their assistantship and the number of calendar days worked during the term.
For up to date information, please refer to the Graduate College:

Additional details can be found in the Graduate Assistantship HR Resource Guide.

What Are The Work Schedules?
Graduate Assistantships are typically appointed on a term by term basis or for a full academic year. Graduate students can also be employed on an hourly basis or as a student employee. Work schedules and the number of hours worked each week are specific to each appointment and indicated in the offer letter.
International students may have additional restrictions set by the student/work authorizations.
When Do I Get Paid?
The pay period for a graduate assistantship begins on the 16th of month and extends to the 15th of following month with the monthly pay date on the 16th of each month. If the 16th falls on a Saturday or Sunday, wages are issued on Friday before the 16th.
Am I Eligible For Vacation, Holiday, Sick Leave, Etc.?
Graduate Assistants are eligible for a variety of paid and unpaid leaves.
Additional details can be found in the Graduate Assistantship HR Resource Guide.

What About Retirement And Benefits?
Graduate Assistants are covered through CampusCare for health insurance. CampusCare is a self-funded student health benefit program which is automatically assessed along with other tuition and fees.

Graduate Assistants who meet the eligibility criteria will be automatically enrolled in the Graduate Assistant Dental Plan (GADP) and Graduate Assistant Vision Care Benefit (VSP) program.
Graduate Assistants may contribute to the 403(b) and/or 457 Deferred Compensation plans using traditional pre-tax and/or Roth contributions. Contributions to the optional retirement plans may be started, changed, or stopped at any time during employment.
Additional details can be found in the Graduate Assistantship HR Resource Guide.

Questions And Support

 

Working at UIC 101 Topics













Quick LinksEmployee ResourcesFaculty ResourcesHR ResourcesManager ResourcesEmployment VerificationCopyright © 2013 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |  |  (  )


