










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  







You are here
Oral Verification Check (Interview Waiver) FAQs

 








     
What is the Oral Verification Check (Interview Waiver)?
The Oral Verification Check (Interview Waiver) is a brief in-person conversation with ITA staff to verify English proficiency for international teaching assistants who are automatically unconditionally certified based on their admissions test scores on the IBT (TOEFL), IELTS or PTE.
Who is eligible for an Oral Verification Check (Interview Waiver)?
Students must have test scores that are current (less than two years old) with the following scores:

Students with the above scores should schedule the Oral Verification Check. 
If your scores are more than 2 years old, you must complete an .
How do I schedule an Oral Verification Check (Interview Waiver)?
 
To schedule and Oral Verification Check (Interview Waiver) go to:   
 
What do I bring to the Oral Verification Check (Interview Waiver)?
 
The student must bring a copy of their current test score report and their I-Card.  If a copy of the current test score report is unavailable, the student must provide their UIN to retrieve the test score results on Banner.
 
How do I receive certification with the Oral Verification Check (Interview Waiver)?
 
The student will receive automatic certification after they bring a copy of the current test score report, their I-Card, and complete the brief in person interview with a member of the ITA staff.
 
 
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


