










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  







You are here
Admission Status

 








Full Status
(Student Level: 2G. Application Status Codes: 97-no pending condition; 58-pending conditions; 98-second admit decision for a term no pending conditions; 58-second admit for term pending conditions; 30-admit clear once pending conditions satisfied)
A degree applicant is admitted on full status when s/he has satisfied all academic requirements for admission (including the completion of any required undergraduate coursework) and has submitted all required credentials by the appropriate deadline. The director of graduate studies should recommend full admission on the referral form and the ratings form in Banner and forward the application pocket to the Office of Graduate Admissions in OAR. Applicants who have not received their bachelor's degree will be admitted on pending status and must submit a final transcript noting the conferring of this degree before the admission semester at UIC begins. Failure to submit final transcript may result in admission being cancelled.
Since Graduate College applicants often apply for admission before receiving their bachelor's degree, they are admitted on pending full status (application status code 58) under the condition that they will satisfactorily complete the degree before they begin their graduate studies. Applicants who are admitted under this condition are reminded by the Office of Graduate Admissions (OAR) that they must submit a final transcript noting the conferring of the degree and the deadline. If the missing credentials are not submitted by the deadline imposed by the Admissions Office, admission will be canceled and the student will be ineligible to register for classes. OAR is responsible for monitoring pending admissions and will clear conditions for admission when the appropriate credentials are received.
See also 
Limited Status
(Student Level: 2G. Application Status Codes: 47-department deficiencies or GPA below Graduate College minimum; 46-department deficiencies or GPA below Graduate College minimum and pending BA/BS degree or final official transcript; 49-second admit decision for a term with department deficiencies or GPA below Graduate College minimum; 48-second admit decision for a term with department deficiencies or GPA below Graduate College minimum and pending BA/BS degree or final official transcript; 30-admit clear once pending conditions satisfied)
Applicants who lack one or more admission requirements classified as non-critical by OAR, or who have some minor deficiencies in undergraduate preparation for the graduate degree program to which they are applying, may be admitted on limited status only. The director of graduate studies should recommend limited admission on the referral form and the ratings form in Banner, and forward the application pocket to the Graduate College for review, along with written justification for the admission and a copy of the limited admission recommendation letter that was sent to the applicant. The limited admission letter must include the conditions and deadlines for changing from limited to full standing.
If the Graduate College agrees with the recommendation, the application will be processed in the same manner as a full status admission. If the Graduate College disagrees, the director of graduate studies will be contacted for further review. Exceptional cases should be discussed with one of the deans before the department sends its recommendation for admission to the applicant, and written justification from the DGS must be provided with the file.
Since Graduate College applicants often apply for admission before receiving their bachelor's degree, they are admitted on pending limited status (application status code 48) under the condition that they will satisfactorily complete the degree before they begin their graduate studies. Applicants who are admitted under this condition are reminded by the Office of Graduate Admissions (OAR) that they must submit a final transcript noting the confirming of the degree and the deadline.
There are two categories of limited status admissions:
Limited-Clear (Status Code 49) status is the probationary classification for degree-seeking applicants recommended for admission who lack one or more specific admission requirements set by the program and/or the Graduate College (e.g., has a GPA below 2.75/4.00, did not take specific undergraduate courses required by the program, etc.)
Applicants may be admitted on limited-clear status for a maximum of two semesters. If the applicant's undergraduate grade point average is below 2.75 s/he is required to receive grades of A or B in the first 16 hours of graduate-level coursework in order to remain in the program.
Graduate programs may require a higher level of performance and may apply criteria in addition to those stated above. It is the responsibility of the program to notify applicants of and monitor any program-imposed admission conditions. When the student satisfies these conditions, the program office must notify the Graduate College in a letter that includes the student's name, university identification number (UIN), and the effective term of change in order to have the student's status changed to full.
If the student fails to meet his/her admission conditions, the program office must notify the Graduate College to initiate drop action. The memo must include the item(s) the student failed to comply with from the original limited status admission letter, as well as a copy of the original letter sent to the student at the time of admission. After review, the Graduate College will send a dismissal letter to the student, with a copy to the director of graduate studies. Only in exceptional cases will the Graduate College consider an extension. In those cases, the student must petition the Graduate College and include the department's recommendation. Monitoring limited conditions and dismissing students for not meeting limited conditions must be done consistently and fairly.
Limited-Pending (Status Code 48)status is the classification for applicants recommended for admission who are lacking official credentials required by OAR, such as official and/or final transcripts, examination scores, or proof of baccalaureate, and who also are admitted on limited status by the program (see Limited Status and Limited-Clear). The conditions for limited status listed above also apply to this category of limited status.
In addition, applicants admitted on limited-pending status are notified that although they are admitted and can register, the admission will be canceled and the student will be ineligible to register unless the missing credentials are submitted by the beginning of the admission semester. OAR is responsible for monitoring pending admissions and will clear conditions for admission when the appropriate credentials are received. If the student is canceled for violation of pending conditions, this is a separate action than being dropped for violating limited status conditions.
Nondegree
(Student Level: 2Y. Application Status Codes: 97, 58)
Applicants admitted as nondegree students may be assigned to a program and thus are subject to department review of admission credentials, or they may be unassigned. Nondegree students assigned to a program are counted in the program's headcount and are identified as nondegree students on the tenth day verification lists. Unassigned nondegree students are identified with the general program code 20FS1780NDEG. Nondegree applicants may not be admitted on limited status. Nondegree students are not eligible for most types of financial assistance including UIC assistantships and tuition and service fee waivers.
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


