










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  







You are here
Degree Grade Point Average-Graduate Degree GPA

 








The Graduate Degree Grade Point Average is the average of grades earned while a student is registered in a particular degree program for all 400- and 500-level UIC graduate semester hour courses (300- and 400- level quarter hour courses) in which an A, B, C, D, or F (formerly E) is earned, whether or not the courses are part of degree requirements. The Degree GPA is used by the Graduate College rather than the level grade point average posted on the transcript and in the Student Access System because the level GPA includes lower-level courses, as well as courses a student may have taken while in another graduate degree program, as well as excluding approved (via Graduate Petition for Transfer Credit Toward an Advanced Degree) nondegree courses.
In Fall 2004 UIC changed from a 5.0 = A to 4.0 = A scale. Under the 4.0 scale, A = 4, B = 3, C = 2, D = 1, and F (formerly E) = 0. In Banner, all courses, whether taken while under the quarter hour or the semester hour systems, will be converted and shown as semester hours (although the course rubric and number will remain as originally taken.
General transfer credit taken at other institutions is not included in the Degree GPA.
Grades earned through the CIC Traveling Scholar Program (CIC 500) are included in the Degree GPA.
If a student changes program codes within the Graduate College, the Degree GPA will be computed starting with the term the new program was begun. Grades earned under the previous program code will be included in the Degree GPA computation only if the courses are applied to the new degree program through an approved Graduate Petition for Transfer Credit Toward an Advanced Degree.
If a student changes from nondegree to degree status, the Degree GPA will be computed starting with the first term as a degree student. Grades earned as a nondegree student will be included in the Degree GPA computation only if the courses are applied to the degree through an approved Graduate Petition for Transfer Credit Toward an Advanced Degree.
Grades earned while a student was in another UIC college will be included in the Degree GPA only if the courses are applied to the graduate program through an approved Graduate Petition for Transfer Credit Toward an Advanced Degree.
Grades earned in graduate extension courses taken while a student is in a graduate degree program will be included in the Degree GPA.
SHADEGR; academic standing (including probation level) is found on the General Student SGASTDN form.
In order to remain in good academic standing, graduate students must maintain a Degree GPA at or above 3.00 (4 = A). When the Degree GPA falls below 3.00, students are sent a warning letter which notifies them that they have two additional terms to raise their average to 3.00.
Please be aware that a student's level grade point average is also computed in BANNER and listed on the transcript. This level GPA is calculated on all courses (including 100-300) the student has taken at a specific level (i.e. level 2U=undergraduate; 2G=graduate; 2X=nondegree undergraduate; 2Y=nondegree graduate; and 2P=medical professional), and does not include any UIC work transferred into the graduate program from nondegree, undergraduate, or other UIC graduate programs. The level GPA is not used by the Graduate College.
See also ,  and .
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


