










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  







You are here
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

 









Does the ITA Program offer TAships for International Graduate Students?
The ITA Program is in charge of working with the various academic departments at the University of Illinois at Chicago in assessing language proficiency and helping International Graduate Students succeed as Teaching Assistants.  The ITA Program does not provide Assistantships.  
Do I need to visit the ITA Program for assessment?
All newly appointed and incoming International Teaching Assistants must be assessed for English oral proficiency. To assess an incoming student’s English oral proficiency, the student will take part in either an Oral Certification Interview (OCI FAQs) or an Oral Verification Interview (OVC FAQs).
for FAQs regarding the Oral Certification Interview. 
for FAQs regarding the Oral Verification Process. 
I have already been certified as a TA at a different institution.  Do I still need to visit the ITA Program at UIC?
Yes.  While the ITA Program does work with other ITA Programs at other institutions, all International students that have been offered TAships at UIC need to be individually certified through an Oral Certification Interview (OCI FAQs) or an Oral Verification Interview (OVC FAQs).
Why do I have to take an oral language proficiency assessment test?
State of Illinois Bill 1516 requires all International Teaching Assistants that provide instruction in a classroom, discussion group, laboratory, or office hour situation to be certified as orally proficient in speaking and communicating in English.
Is there a way for me to conduct my interview digitally?
ITAs must conduct the OCI or OVI in person at the ITA Program office in BSB 237.  Please bring your UIC ID, recent TOEFL, IELTS or PTE scores and your TA offer letter.  Really nice people work for the ITA Program and we look forward to meeting you in-person. 
How do I register for ITA Courses?
 for more information on how to register. 
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


