 















Search:











Top Navigation


Current Students










Former Students








Faculty & Staff












Other Links... sub-category






 


Section navigation











  »   » Diplomas 



Diplomas
All University of Illinois graduates will receive one diploma per degree earned, free of charge.
Page Sections:









Related Pages:




Delivery of your Diploma
University of Illinois diplomas are 8.5 x 11 inches and sent by first-class mail to a student's diploma address approximately a week or two after your degree has been awarded. Please  as necessary before leaving the university.

Delivery Failures
After mailing, if your diploma is returned to the Office of the Registrar, you will be responsible for providing a corrected address. If your diploma is not returned to the Office of the Registrar after 90 days for domestic and 120 days for international past the mailing date, you will be responsible for providing the correct address and paying for the cost of the replacement diploma.



Ordering a Diploma
Have you lost your diploma or would you like additional copies? The Office of Registrar has an online solutions to make these types of requests.

Online Diploma Services
Online diploma services for the University of Illinois at Chicago are available through the university's official diploma vendor, the Michael Sutter Company.  The cost of a replacement or duplicate diploma is $30.00.
                
Note: For degrees earned prior to Fall 2004 Social Security number is requested, Fall 2004 and after the University Identification number is required.
Services Offered:

Ordering a Diploma - Standard or express delivery options are available
Ordering an eDiploma - University of Illinois at Chicago eDiploma's are a Signed and Certified PDF of your original paper diploma used for easy diploma verification purposes.
Diploma Status - Search the status of a diploma order

Once a diploma request is processed you will receive a secure ID by email within 48 hours. If you have received your diploma recently then you may already have this Secure ID in an email or with your actual diploma.



Ordering a Diploma in Writing
Diplomas may be ordered through the Office of the Registrar. Print out the , fill in the requested information and have it notarized.  Please include a check or money order payable to the University of Illinois at Chicago for $30 per diploma.
Mail Request to:

                    Office of the Registrar, MC 018
                    University  of Illinois at Chicago
                    Suite 1200 Student Services Building
                    1200 West Harrison Street
                    Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161
                




 
 
 



Office of the Registrar, MC 018

University of Illinois at Chicago
Suite 1200 Student Services Building
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, Illinois 60607-7161
312-996-4350

Hours of Operation

Monday - Friday, 8:30-5:00pm






 
 



















