 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site














 





About Us

















Welcome to the UIC Counseling Center
Questions, choices, concerns and changes are all part of what students experience during college. Many times you can work through them on your own or with the help of friends, family, or a partner. Sometimes, the issues can feel too private, overwhelming or complicated to share with someone you know or you may have become isolated from available support. Talking with a Counseling Center professional can provide the safe, supportive, confidential setting to explore your concerns towards improving your emotional, physical and academic functioning.
Fortunately, the Counseling Center provides diverse services to help students deal with stress, handle a crisis or trauma, cope with the transition to college, gain strength from gender and cultural identity, or manage serious mental illness and many other issues. Our counselors can help students increase resilience and positive well-being by developing effective coping and problem-solving skills. The Counseling Center is supported by the Health Service Fee as assessed to all students enrolled at the university and therefore enrolled students are eligible for Counseling Center mental health services without additional cost.
If you are a faculty, staff, parent, partner, or student who is concerned about a distressed student, the Counseling Center also provides consultation to assist in determining how you might best help.



Links





            Mission & Values
        







            Scope of Practice
        







            Meet Our Staff
        







            Hours & Location
        




























































Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















