 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site


























Breadcrumbs



Individual Therapy




Individual Therapy
In individual therapy, you work one-on-one with a counselor to address your concerns. Our counselors are good listeners, they can be a source of support and understanding, and they will help you explore your options and develop effective strategies to cope with your concerns.
Common concerns addressed in individual counseling include:

Depression
Anxiety/stress
Low self-confidence
Relationship difficulties (e.g. romantic, family, peer)
Academic problems
Concerns related to sexual orientation and identity
Decision-making dilemma
Eating too much or too little
Difficulty balancing the demands of college student life
Grieving the death of someone close to you
Recovering from unwanted sexual contact or violence
Hopelessness or suicidal thinking





text block



The Counseling Center utilizes a short-term model for counseling, meaning that issues usually are addressed in a focused manner over the course of no more than one semester. If you have a history of long-term or concurrent individual therapy, your intake counselor will likely refer you to a community provider who can work with you on a longer-term basis. If you and your intake counselor have determined that brief counseling at our Counseling Center is right for you, you and your assigned counselor will discuss your goals for therapy, frequency of sessions, and likely length of treatment to address your concerns.
Many students consider individual counseling to be the most effective form of counseling. However, if your concerns are related to interpersonal dynamics (relationship problems, communication concerns, social anxiety, etc.), you may be referred to one of our therapy groups. Group therapy is the most effective treatment for such concerns and offers students a place to examine and improve their relationship dynamics in a safe, confidential group environment. For more information on therapy groups, click here (internal link arrow).


































































Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















