 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site


























Breadcrumbs



Group Therapy




Group Therapy




Group Therapy




          *Please note that these are not actual current or former group therapy clients at the UIC Counseling Center.
        


Group therapy is the treatment of choice for many concerns, especially for individuals whose distress is related to their social, family, or romantic relationships.
Group therapy (also known as an interpersonal process group), is offered to students who may benefit from exploring personal and interpersonal growth and/or interpersonal underpinnings of psychological symptoms in a safe, supportive environment with others who may have similar experiences.
Groups generally meet once a week, have 5-8 members and 1-2 trained group therapists, and do not have a session limit; however, a few groups are specifically designed to be time-limited (often for a specific semester).




Text blocks





                        Potential Benefits of Group Therapy
                    


Provides an opportunity to explore personal concerns with others, who may have similar experiences, in a trusting, confidential environment.
Provides an opportunity to learn more about your interpersonal communication style and its potential impact on your relationships with others.
Provides an opportunity to practice more effective communication with other people.
Learn to better recognize and share your emotional experiences in the present.moment by practicing being emotionally available to and vulnerable with others.
Practice giving and receiving interpersonal feedback in order to identify and work on how you both present yourself to and impact other people.





                        How Do I Participate in Group Therapy?
                    

Before joining a group, you are first required to attend an intake appointment at the Counseling Center. If your intake counselor recommends group therapy, the next step is to meet with the co-facilitators of an available group for what is called a “pre-group meeting.” During the pre-group meeting, the co-facilitators will help you determine whether that particular group is a good fit for your clinical and interpersonal needs. A meeting with the co-facilitators of a group, typically 30 minutes in length, can be scheduled after first completing an intake evaluation appointment or via referral from your UIC Counseling Center individual counseling therapist or group therapy clinician. Please contact the UIC Counseling Center to schedule an intake appointment at 312-996-3490, or speak with your assigned counselor about your interest in group therapy.






Links





            Group Therapy Schedule
        

                Times and topics for Counseling Center groups
            







            Group FAQ
        

                Common questions and concerns about group
            







            Group Myths
        

                Nervous about joining a group? Let’s put some myths to rest.
            







            Group as Laboratory
        

                How to get the most out of group
            





































































Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















