 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site


























Breadcrumbs



Couples Therapy




Couples Therapy





        Couples Counseling
      





Concerns often arise in romantic relationships. Couples therapy is offered to students whose presenting concerns would best be addressed with both members of that relationship present. It is up to the student(s) what constitutes a couple, and all couples are welcome to utilize this service as long as one member of the couple is currently enrolled as a UIC student.







Common Concerns Addressed in Couples Therapy:
 

Frequent arguing
Difficulties with communication
Commitment
Infidelity
Difficult decisions
Parenting
Finances
Sexual and emotional intimacy
Adjustment to transitions (e.g., a new baby, death in the family, graduation, etc.)
How to enhance the relationship

Like individual counseling at the Counseling Center, couples counseling is also brief in nature, typically lasting no longer than one semester. If it seems that a couple may benefit from longer-term counseling, your intake counselor may recommend a community resource. Not sure whether to engage in couples vs. individual or group counseling? Your intake counselor can talk with you about which option is right for you.  


































































Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















