 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site


























Breadcrumbs



Outreach Services and Programs




Outreach Services and Programs




Outreach Services



Outreach Services
Counseling Center staff members provide presentations, workshops, and consultation to students, faculty, and staff at UIC.
Let’s Talk
Let’s Talk is a consultation service provided to UIC students outside of the Counseling Center.  to learn more




Presentations and Workshops
The Counseling Center provides presentations and workshops that focus on activities that increase individual, interpersonal, and professional development. Most programs address both knowledge and skills, and some include experiential or interactive components. During the year, we initiate a number of programs, often in collaboration with other UIC organizations. In addition, we frequently receive and respond to requests to develop programs for classes, student organizations, faculty or staff groups, and other UIC units. We always include activities individually tailored to the needs of the particular organization.
Some topics addressed in recent programs for students include:

coping constructively with stress
assertiveness training
understanding personality style differences
issues related to choosing a major or planning a career
facilitating academic success for students on probation
decreasing problems with alcohol and substance use
developing healthy relationships
issues of body image and eating disorders
sexual assault and violence prevention
coping with depression
awareness of issues concerning diversity in gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability
resources available at the Counseling Center

Some topics addressed in recent programs for faculty or staff include:

understanding personality style differences as they relate to professional interactions (including differences in learning styles)
working with students experiencing distress (including facilitating referral to appropriate resources)
balancing multiple roles
resources available at the Counseling Center

Our staff can develop programs addressing a variety of other topics. We can also suggest other resources at UIC for topics outside our expertise.




How to Learn about Upcoming Workshops
Scheduled programs are often listed on our Upcoming Workshops (internal hyperlink) page or the . The UIC News and the Chicago Flame also often carry information about our programs. Flyers and posters regarding upcoming programs are available in the Counseling Center Suite (Student Services Building #2010). Many are also posted throughout campus.




Request a Workshop



If you are interested in a having the Counseling Center provide a workshop or program, please complete the  and submit it to our Assistant Director for Outreach, Dr. Johanna Strokoff, via email () or fax [(312) 996-7645]. Dr. Strokoff will review your request and contact you, typically within 3-5 days of your initial request.
While we will make every effort to meet requests, certain peak times of the year do not allow us the time or resources to do outreach programs. Ultimately, it is best if you give us at least two to four weeks notice for a presentation and that you can assure that at least 10 participants will attend.
If we are unable to meet your need, we will suggest other resources to you or discuss another time of the year when we might be more available to meet your needs.







































































Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















