 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site


























Breadcrumbs



For Parents, Faculty, Staff, and Concerned Others




For Parents, Faculty, Staff, and Concerned Others




text block



We are grateful for your concern about a particular student (or students) and want to assist you in helping them.  This can take several forms and is bound by certain relevant policies.

Consultation–We can speak with you about how best to talk to the student of concern, inform you about mental health issues in general, and provide information about how the student can seek help.
Receive Information–A counselor can accept information from you about a student of concern, whether they are currently receiving services from the Counseling Center or are simply attending UIC. Typically, documentation of your concern will be made, which could be helpful to a client’s treatment, or in the event the student is not a client, can alert us to the concerns you have noted, should that student present for treatment in the future.
Often we cannot share information–Please note that we cannot share information with you about a client if the client is 17 years or older (this is IL law), unless the client has signed a release form explicitly stating they want the information shared with you. If a client is assessed to be of imminent risk of harm to themselves of others, counselors will consider if and with whom information needs to be shared to keep all parties safe.
The student must schedule the appointment themselves—As adults, students must make their own decision to seek mental health care and schedule their own appointments. As a concerned other, you can encourage the student to seek help and share information with them about how to get help.  All currently enrolled UIC students who have paid the Health Services Fee can typically receive an intake or first appointment, which is a face-to-face assessment of their concerns culminating in recommendations for a plan of treatment.
The Counseling Center is a brief treatment facility—Please be aware that some student needs and concerns are beyond our resources, often because they require longer term and/or more intensive treatment. In those instances, we are committed to helping connect the student with appropriate resources in the community.  Please click HERE for further explanation of our services.

If you would like to speak with a professional counselor about a student of concern, please tell the Counseling Center receptionist who will then arrange for you to speak to a counselor, either immediately or as soon as one becomes available (Phone 312-996-3490).



















































Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















