 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site














 





Training





















Dear Prospective Applicant,
Thank you for your interest in the training programs at the Counseling Center of the University of Illinois at Chicago. Our center has a strong commitment to training and has offered a training program since 1970. The UIC Counseling Center offers three graduate or post graduate psychology training programs: , , and . We also offer an undergraduate training program to prepare InTouch Crisis and Support Telephone Hotline paraprofessionals.
We recognize that seeking quality training at the site that is best for you is a significant decision and hope that the information on these pages will be helpful. Through the links below, you will find information describing our setting and programs to assist you in your decisions regarding training next year, including information about our application procedures.
The intensive clinical core of training in individual, couples, and group treatments provides preparation for entry into a range of further training and employment opportunities, or for specialized training at the post-doctoral level. Trainees from clinical, counseling, and professional psychology programs across the country have gone on from the UIC Counseling Center to work in a variety of settings, including university counseling centers, medical settings, and private practice.
Our training staff is deeply committed to developing professionals and the community that we serve. We highly value the ideals of multiculturalism and social justice and strive to make these principles a pervasive part of our training programs. We also take pride in our roles as supervisors and mentors, and seek to provide multiculturally-competent clinical services, as well as multiculturally-competent supervision to those we train. We embrace the diversity and knowledge that our trainees add to the staff and hope that you will carefully consider our programs.
Sincerely,
Jeanette Simon, Psy.D.
Interim Associate Director for Training



links





            APA-Accredited Doctoral Internship
        







            Advanced Psychotherapy Externship
        







            Post-Doctoral Fellowship
        







            InTouch Crisis and Support Hotline
        




























































Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















