 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site


























Breadcrumbs



InTouch Crisis and Support Hotline Paraprofessional Program




InTouch Crisis and Support Hotline Paraprofessional Program




How does InTouch work?
The InTouch Crisis and Support Hotline is a non-profit organization that offers its services to all members of the Chicagoland community. The Hotline is staffed with student volunteers from a wide variety of backgrounds and academic interests. Anybody interested in listening and helping people work through their issues or concerns is encouraged to apply. Previous experience in counseling or crisis work is not required.




Benefits of Becoming an InTouch Volunteer
The InTouch Hotline offers student volunteers many unique benefits such as:

giving volunteers training and skills in basic counseling and crisis intervention techniques
building valuable interpersonal communication skills that will benefit the volunteer well beyond the Hotline
providing individuals with a role in which they can directly enhance and improve the quality of life for members of their own community
giving student volunteers an opportunity for direct interaction with UIC students and faculty in the field of psychology
offering three credit hours for successful completion of the skills for paraprofessionals course
providing students practical experience with a well-recognized organization; such opportunities can enhance resumes and employment or graduate school prospects
presenting an opportunity to continue your education and enhance your skill level through Hotline sponsored workshops and conferences
offering an opportunity for seasoned volunteers to acquire supervision skills as they mentor new trainees










Apply Today!

Complete the 
Fill it out and submit it to Dr. Robert Ballantyne at the Counseling Center
One of the program coordinators or a member of their staff will then contact you in order to schedule an in-person interview.

 
 








Getting InTouch
For further information on the UIC Paraprofessional Program or the application process, please contact:









Robert Ballantyne, Psy.D
University of Illinois at Chicago Counseling Center

1200 West Harrison,
Suite 2010, Student Services Building,
(MC 333),
Chicago,
Illinois
60607-3320


Phone: (312) 996-3490
Fax: (312) 996-7645
Email: 




























































Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















