 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




















































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site




















Recent Natural Disasters


Posted on October 18, 2018


The Counseling Center is available to offer emotional support to UIC students whose families and friends may have been directly impacted by this late summer’s catastrophic natural disasters in the U.S. and elsewhere. In addition to calling or stopping by the Counseling Center to make an appointment or using our InTouch Hotline, we also offer the following relevant resources for emotional support and resilience building:
The American Psychological Association Help Center offers sound advice for those coping either from afar or more directly with this late summer’s hurricanes, floods, wildfires, and earthquakes: 
 
Among those materials is this relevant excerpt:
“While millions face the direct impact of the storms and flames, countless others face emotional responses as they look on with both worry and sympathy. produces traumatic distress even for those not directly affected. Maintaining a sense of perspective, acknowledging your feelings and looking for ways to help in the recovery effort can be effective tools for coping. The same advice holds for  read the article for information on how psychologists can help.
Of course, waters will eventually recede, and fires will eventually die out. But it’s important to deal with the emotional aftermath.  involves providing time to adjust, seeking support from loved ones and sharing your experiences.”





























Contact
 UIC Counseling Center 
1200 West Harrison Street, 2010 SSB, (MC 333), Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 
Fax: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















