

V.N.  





“ The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple, among his followers, gives not of his wisdom but rather of his faith and his lovingness.

If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter the house of his wisdom, but rather leads you to the threshold of your own mind. ”
:- Kahlil Gibran in The Prophet








Greetings!!
Affiliations

  Professor of  and University Scholar.
         Lead PI and Director, 




Research Interests 
  My research areas broadly span topics in Computer Systems Security, with use of ideas from compilers, operating systems and formal methods for defending cyber attacks.     
My complete publication list available . 

My CV is available . 
Research Support 
My research is sponsored by grants from NSF (,,  and  programs), . 


Recent and Ongoing Professional Activities
 Editorial Board

 IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing

 Program Committees

2018: (Security, Privacy Tracke
 2017:.
2016: , 
2015: , 
2014:  , , 
2013:  ,,, 
2012:  (PC Chair), ,,
2011: , , , ,


 Conference Organization

 Workshop Chair .
Local Arrangements. . Chicago, IL.
 Tutorial chair. 
 Workshop Chair. Fourth Midwest Security Workshop. Oct 2007.




 Education
I graduated with a Ph.D in  in December 2004, from  (formerly, SUNY @ StonyBrook). My advisor was . 






 Students 
I've been fortunate to work with a group of outstanding students and postdocs!

 Current Student Advisees

 Maliheh Monshizadeh (Ph.D)
   Abeer Alhuzali (Ph.D)
   Sadegh Momemi (Ph.D)
   Vijay Sai Prasanth Kommini (M.S.)

 Current Postdocs

 
 

 Past

  (now at LGS innovations)
  (now at Adobe)
 Kalpana Gondi (Ph.D) (co-advised with Prof. Prasad Sistla) (now at Amazon)
 (co-advise with Lenore Zuck) (now at VMWare)
 (now Asst. Professor of Computer Science at Univ of Dayton)



 Teaching 
 Fall 2015: CS487 : Building Secure Computer Systems
  
 Fall 2015 office hours: MW 11.a.m.-noon in SEO 1131.
  

 Fun stuff 
I am a member of the following Chicago-area organizations:
















 


News
Chicago has a lot of nice restaurants. See  I have eaten lately!
 for biking in Chicago.









Content©CopyrightV.N.  Venkatakrishnan
