










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Student Info





















































  




You are here»
Thesis

 








NOTES:  
All theses and dissertations must be submitted electronically as a PDF using the UIC Electronic Thesis and Dissertation (ETD) submission system.  Information is at .
	 
Effective for thesis and dissertation defenses occurring on January 1, 2015 or later, students will be required to review their thesis/dissertation using iThenticate. See.
Thesis Manual
The  was prepared by the Graduate College to provide guidance for the student and advisor in the formal preparation of the thesis, and should be consulted before the student begins compiling the document. While there are a number of format and presentation requirements that should be followed, the Graduate College allows for deviations for accepted disciplinary manuscript practices, and the guidelines allow flexiblity for many of these deviations.  Consult the manual for more information, and also consult with your advisor and department.  A checklist is provided in the back of the Thesis Manual, and it  should be carefully reviewed.
Policy on Non-English Theses and Dissertations
Theses and dissertations should be submitted in English (excluding quotes in another language).  On occasion, other languages may be used when there are sound academic reasons.  Read the .  The title page and abstract must always be in English.
Forms

see also the  section
Thesis/Dissertation Questions
The  (see above) should be consulted on questions of format.  Additional questions should be directed to your advisor, Director of Graduate Studies, or program thesis coordinator since the format is mainly approved by the program.  Issues that the Thesis Manual may not fully address and that your program can't answer, as well as questions on the submission of the thesis to the Graduate College not stated in the manual, may be addressed to the Thesis Coordinator in the Graduate College.  (See  for the term deadlines.)
James Kollenbroich, PhD
Thesis Coordinator
Room 613 University Hall
(312) 996-3958
email: 
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


