

Ouri E. Wolfson 

Professor
Biographical sketch:Ouri Wolfson's main research interests are in 
database systems, distributed systems, and 
mobile/pervasive computing. He received his B.A. degree in mathematics, and his 
Ph.D. degree in computer science from Courant Institute of Mathematical 
Sciences, . He is currently 
the Richard and Loan Hill Professor of  at the , 
and an Affiliate Professor in the . 
He is the 
founder of Mobitrac, a high-tech startup 
that was acquired by Fluensee Co. in 2006; and the founder and president of Pirouette Software Inc. which specializes in 
mobile data management.
He served as a consultant to Argonne National Laboratory, US Army 
Research Laboratories, DARPA, and 
NASA. 
Before joining the University of Illinois he has been on the computer 
science faculty at the Technion and Columbia University, and a 
Member of Technical Staff at Bell Laboratories.
Ouri Wolfson authored over 200 publications, and holds seven patents. He is a  a  a  
and a University of Illinois Scholar for 2009. 
He co-authored six award winning papers,
and 
served as a  
during 2001-2003.
Wolfson was the keynote and distinguished  
speaker at leading conferences and universities, e.g., 
the 2012 International Conference on Mobile Data Management (MDM), and
Peking University (2012).
Ouri Wolfson serves on the editorial boards of several journals, and chaired leading conferences. Most recently he was 
the
general chair of the  ,
and the general co-chair of the 2013 Mobile Data Management (MDM) conference.
His research has been funded by the 
National Science Foundation (NSF), Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR), Defense 
Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), NATO, US Army, NASA, the New York State Science and 
Technology Foundation, Hughes Research Laboratories, 
Informix, Accenture, and Hitachi Co. During 2006-2015 he served as the Principal Investigator on a $3.1M NSF grant to establish a Ph.D. program in the new discipline of .


Current Projects Directed and Related Publications:


 
Completed Projects and Related Publications:






 


  