 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu

























































Eyebrow menu


UIC menu










Search the site














 



















Guaranteed Professional Program Admissions (GPPA)


















GUARANTEED PROFESSIONAL PROGRAM ADMISSIONS
The GPPA initiative allows a limited number of first year students per year to be admitted to UIC with guaranteed admission to one of several graduate or professional degree programs. Students follow a specific curriculum and meet established performance criteria to maintain their admission guarantee.
With the security of GPPA, students are able to focus on undergraduate studies and have the freedom to pursue many subject areas and disciplines. In addition, participants have early and frequent contact with professional school faculty and advisors. Most students in GPPA also benefit from the facilities and services of the UIC Honors College.








INFORMATION SESSIONS
Honors College and GPPA Staff conduct information sessions at the UIC Visitors Center on a regular basis. These sessions include an overall presentation on both the Honors College and GPPA, including the admissions process, program requirements, and resources. There is also time for students to ask individual questions.
Sessions are held at the UIC Visitors Center on a regular basis from July through January.
Register at .






 
See the “Frequently Asked Questions” page to answer your general questions about GPPA. For specific questions about GPPA, please email .



























Contact
 Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts









UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















