 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu













































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 



















Commencement












UIC Commencement is personal and meaningful. It is a shared celebration with faculty and friends from your college who have shaped your education. Hear your name called and walk across the stage to receive your accolades. For the complete college experience, graduates and their families are encouraged to attend their university commencement. Don’t miss out on this unforgettable exclamation point on your UIC career!






Quick Links










FAQs










Schedule


















Live Streams







Feature Links







            PREPARATION
        









            COMMENCEMENT DAY
        









            LIVE STREAMS
        










Fall 2018 Commencement Ceremony
The Fall 2018 commencement ceremonies are for graduates from the Summer 2018 and Fall 2018 semesters.




















Commencement Photography
GradImages™ is the official photographer for UIC commencement ceremonies. Please note that it will take at least 10 business days to have commencement photos posted online for purchase. Your photos will be available to view and order by visiting 
Official UIC photographers will also be on hand to document the festivities. These images can be found on the UIC  to view/order.
Since photographs will be available, family members and guests are encouraged to remain in their seats, relax and enjoy the ceremony.































Contact
 525 S. Racine Chicago IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts









UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















