


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 




The University of Illinois at Chicago 
Admissions & Aid












 




















Discover your potential at Chicago’s only public research university






University of Illinois at Chicago is Chicago’s largest university and one of the nation’s top 200 research universities. Here you will learn from faculty who make the discoveries that other universities’ faculty teach. With one faculty member for every 17 students, you will receive the support and encouragement you need to succeed.
With , you can explore your potential in life sciences, physical sciences, social sciences, arts, business, technology and more. Outside the classroom, there are plenty of activities to indulge your interests and to help you connect with classmates.





Apply now

            Learn more about undergraduate, graduate and professional admissions
        
 
Visit us

            Experience UIC in person
        
 
Events

            Find school visits and application dates
        
   




 ranked UIC #17 on it’s ’50 Colleges That Add the Most Value’ list based on comparative-value grades for graduation rates, earnings, student loan repayment and other factors.



 



Undergraduate






Current high school students, as well as high school graduates applying for college for the first time, should apply as first-year students. First-year applications are accepted only for the fall semester. Learn more about 
Use the  if you are a transfer student, seeking readmission to UIC, applying for a second bachelor’s degree or are applying for non-degree study.  vary depending on which college you choose.

















 









Honors College

The UIC Honors College provides outstanding students with a more challenging learning environment in a small community setting. Honors College students receive all the benefits of a small college experience while enjoying the opportunities that exist within a major research university. Students learn both inside and outside the classroom, as they explore issues in-depth through special projects and classes designed to enhance academic growth and independence.








 



Graduate and professional






UIC offers more than 150  in the arts, humanities, social sciences, life sciences, physical sciences, health sciences and engineering. Details on each degree program can be found on each program’s website. Admission  differ for domestic and international students.
College graduates may also apply to UIC’s graduate-level  and  programs. Each requires a different application.
Are you a distance learner? UIC offers  graduate programs in growing fields of health care, education and engineering.

















 



International






UIC provides international students with opportunities to take advantage of its role as Chicago’s only public Research I university. The city’s largest university welcomes thousands of international students and scholars each year and provides hundreds of students with the opportunity to study abroad. Chicago provides a home to many Global 500 Fortune companies including Google, Boeing, United Airlines and Caterpillar.

UIC also houses a number of internationally recognized and globally engaged research centers in urban studies, architecture, public health, social work, medicine and engineering.


















 









Guaranteed Professional Programs Admission

assures qualified first-year students that they can pursue a professional degree at UIC after succeeding in their bachelor’s degree.
“My interaction with faculty through GPPA motivated me to be more proactive in patient care. Pharmacists have the responsibility to educate and empower patients.”

—Joseph Dang, UIC pharmacy student, second year







 



Extended campus






UIC’s  offers workshops, courses and degrees to help life-long learners gain new opportunities in today’s growing fields.
The  offers English courses to international students, from beginning to advanced. English for International Professionals serves those who speak intermediate to advanced English and want to improve their writing and speaking skills.











 



Summer session






Do you attend a different school but want to take a course or two in the summer to offset your workload in the coming year? Then UIC’s Summer Session is for you.
UIC’s convenient downtown location makes it easy to combine your studies with work and fun in the city. More than 300 courses — in nearly 50 subject areas — are available in either a four- or eight-week session, offering the flexibility and options you need.











 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








