


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 




















 
 





Visit Campus

UIC is home to 29,000 students in the heart of one of the world’s greatest cities


We invite you to visit the University of Illinois at Chicago, one of the nation’s most diverse campuses and Chicago’s largest university, located just a mile from the Loop. The east side of campus is home to most undergraduate classes, student housing, the UIC Pavilion, recreation facilities and Student Center East. The west side of campus includes the health sciences colleges and medical center, recreation facilities and Student Center West. The south area of campus has student housing, retail shops, athletics fields and the UIC Forum, a conference and events center.



 







Book a visit

            Choose the option that fits your interests
        
 
Getting to Chicago

            UIC is readily accessible by car, bus, train or plane
        
 
Interactive map

            Plan your visit to UIC with our interactive campus map
        
 
 



Other options for touring campus






Besides guided tours, we offer other options, from school-specific tours to . We strongly encourage you to reserve a space for a school-specific, department or college tour in advance by signing up through your program office.
To see photos from UIC’s guided tours, follow us on 














 









Open House

Everyone is welcome at  for prospective students, their families, alumni and the public. Open House hits the UIC highlights with tours of campus, speakers, sample classes, workshops and more.








 



Stay a little bit longer




After a campus tour or information session, continue your UIC experience by exploring campus and the culturally rich neighborhoods nearby.











Hull-House Museum

The  brings history to life. Here Addams founded America’s most famous settlement house, where generations of immigrants learned to thrive in Chicago. Social reformers at Hull-House worked for child labor laws, women’s voting rights, public health and prison reform. Today the museum promotes social justice in free gallery tours, films, talks, events and an online history.


 















Sports and entertainment

From sports to culture, UIC has ideal spots for a fun campus visit. Cheer on the  in the Division I Horizon League. See a play at the . Spend the day  at Student Center East, reading at the , working out at the  and the , or  around campus.


 















On-campus cafes

Care for a cup of coffee? Head to the Rebecca Port Faculty-Student Center Cafe in University Hall on the east side of campus, where you can surf the Web and contemplate your next move. Need a break? Have lunch at UIC. There are lots of .


 















Neighborhood culture

Chicago is a city of neighborhoods. Near campus, you’ll find ethnic restaurants, museums and cultural centers. Tap into the heart and soul of the area at the  in Greektown, the  in Pilsen, and the  in Little Italy.


 















Environmental Sustainability at UIC

UIC recognizes the effects of climate change and is doing great work to help lessen our impact. Take our Green Campus Tour and learn how we recycle, generate solar-powered energy, or simply marvel in the beauty of our 5,000 trees!


 







 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








