


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 




















 
 





Paying for College

A UIC education brings a lifetime of benefits


The University of Illinois at Chicago is recognized nationally for its great value.  UIC students earn more than many of their peers when they graduate, yet pay  than they would at most other universities.
There are many ways to . Federal aid, loans, grants, scholarships and student jobs can make college more affordable and accessible to students. Graduate students can reduce  and other costs with , as well as grants outside UIC.



 







Undergraduate tuition and fees

            Estimate of one semester tuition and fees for your program
        
 
Graduate and professional tuition and fees

            Complete breakdown of costs
        
 
Financial aid

            Sources of financial aid and deadlines
        
 
 









We're here to help

“About 80 percent of our students receive some type of financial assistance for their educations. In 2013-14, we helped our undergraduates receive nearly $230 million in federal, state, institutional and private funding.”

—Shirley Rodriguez-Vega, associate director, financial aid office







 



Scholarships






Scholarships vary by type of student:

 are considered for scholarships based on their UIC applications. They may submit additional forms for federal or merit-based aid.
Transfer undergraduates, continuing undergraduates, ROTC cadets and non-resident undergraduates have several .
The offers merit scholarships to first-year students based on their UIC applications. It also awards merit scholarships to transfer students, current Honors College students and others. The listserv  keeps students up to date on opportunities.
 can seek assistantships, fellowships and other aid through their colleges.
For  the Office of Special Scholarships advises on competitive awards.
Find and apply to available scholarships at UIC with the .


















 



Jobs on campus






Approximately 70 percent of UIC students hold part-time jobs to pay for college. On-campus jobs are a convenient option that give students valuable campus contacts. The , part of the Office of Career Services, helps connect job-seeking students with UIC departments that are hiring. You can find semester-long jobs or  lasting anywhere from one day to three weeks.
Learn more about the  available for students and view the current .











 



Assistantships and fellowships






Colleges and other units at UIC offer graduate students the opportunity to teach, conduct research or do administrative work in paid . Assistants receive stipends, tuition waivers, certain fee waivers and the option to buy low-cost health insurance. While most assistantships are found through individual colleges, some are listed on UIC’s .
Internal UIC fellowships include  and . For specialized, competitive opportunities,  are available from foundations or other grant-making bodies outside UIC.

















 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








