


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 




The University of Illinois at Chicago 
Academics












 























At UIC, there’s a lot to learn






University of Illinois at Chicago features 15 academic colleges, 83 bachelor’s, 93 master’s and 64 doctoral degree programs. That means plenty of opportunities to explore your interests.





Undergraduate degrees and minors

            Find the one that's right for you
        
 
Graduate and professional degrees

            Study in innovative, nationally ranked programs
        
 
Graduate College

            Supporting the research, scholarship and success of graduate and professional students
        
   




Our faculty






At UIC, you’ll learn from award-winning professors: American Association for the Advancement of Science fellows, Fulbright scholars and National Science Foundation Career Award winners.
With nearly 2,821 faculty members and a low 1-to-18 faculty-student ratio, UIC undergraduates have exceptional access to the scientists, artists, writers, clinicians, educators and innovators whose work shapes our world.














 



Arts and humanities






UIC courses in the arts and humanities help students develop critical-thinking skills and a comprehensive world view.
The College of Architecture, Design, and the Arts is a diverse community of artists, architects, designers and performers. Humanities studies in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences —  including the  — reflect the global identities of UIC and Chicago.

















 









Be innovative

The UIC Innovation Center is a place for collaboration, education and incubation that brings together industry, educators and students to find solutions to real-world problems. Students in the MAD Lab (Medical Accelerator for Devices) created a diagnostic tool for women’s health exams.








 



Basic and social sciences






Whether you want to view the world through an electron microscope or the perspective of an entire culture, UIC offers a broad range of programs in the basic and social sciences. UIC researchers study important issues like energy production and conservation, the survival of wildlife in the city, the cultures of lost Amazonian civilizations and the behaviors that surround binge-drinking. Their work translates into classroom learning and student research opportunities.











 



Business






UIC produces leaders for the global economy of the future. The College of Business Administration reinforces the core disciplines — accounting, finance, information and decision sciences, marketing and management — with solid, real-world experience.
For students whose career goals expand beyond one area of study, UIC offers joint degree options that combine business with medicine, public health, pharmacy, economics, nursing and management information systems.














 









See the futures

Today’s financial trading relies on high-speed software and instant access to real-time information from enormous volumes of data. In its market training lab, UIC’s International Center for Futures and Derivatives teaches students in an environment that simulates the trading room at a big investment firm.








 



Computing and engineering






UIC is a place where ideas become reality. Researchers are designing more efficient batteries and more powerful computer chips, finding better ways to manage storm water surge and making microelectronics for space exploration. If you’re interested in computer science — gaming, manipulation of big data, computers that understand natural language or visualization, securing healthcare data, the intersection of art and science — you’ll find it at UIC.























 



Health sciences






UIC’s health sciences colleges emphasize clinical skills, research and community focus. You can prepare for a wide range of health careers in one of the applied health sciences, dentistry, medicine, nursing, pharmacy, public health or social work. Ten pre-health programs in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences prepare students for future study in UIC health sciences programs and veterinary medicine.
For students whose goals expand beyond one area of study, UIC offers joint degrees that combine health care studies with other disciplines. The Medical Scientist Training Program is an MD/Ph.D. program for physician-scientists. Bioengineering, a department in both the colleges of Medicine and Engineering, trains students for careers in the growing biomedical field.





























 









Center for Global Health

UIC’s Center for Global Health puts knowledge into practice to make the world a healthier place. Faculty and students work with local hospitals, doctors and community leaders to improve the health of people in India, Africa, Haiti and other developing nations.








 



Social justice






UIC offers more than 200 courses focused on issues of equality, fairness and inclusion. A minor in social justice in Gender and Women’s Studies explores ethical, social, historical and political questions facing Chicago and the world. Students and faculty are involved in social justice work, from public policy to arts projects, human rights to urban health disparities.
 

















 









Social Justice Initiative

The UIC Social Justice Initiative links scholars and activists in Chicago and beyond through programs related to social justice, democracy and human rights. The campus-wide project builds critical thinking and research skills that make students effective change agents and socially conscious professionals.








 



Urban planning






UIC educates city planners and administrators to evaluate needs, find solutions — then make them happen.
The College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs offers undergraduate and degrees, including Chicago’s only accredited graduate program in urban planning.  Eight research centers specialize in neighborhood development, economics, transportation, race and public policy, criminal justice and other issues.











 









Gentrification or not?

A gentrification index developed by UIC researchers measures neighborhood change in Chicago’s 77 community areas. It quantifies each area’s residents by ethnicity, age, education, income, occupation, home ownership and home values. Researchers found more neighborhoods declining than gentrifying, despite concerns that long-time residents are being priced out of some areas.








 



More academic links








Honors College

            An environment for advanced intellectual growth, a foundation for life-long learning
        
 
Global Learning Community

            Certificate program for incoming freshmen promotes global thinking
        
 
Study Abroad

            Programs on six continents
        
 
Undergraduate Research Experience

            Opportunities for undergraduates to participate in research
        
 
Summer Research Opportunities Program

            Undergraduates work one-on-one with a faculty mentor
        
 
 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








