


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 























 
 





Colleges & Schools

UIC educates leaders who change the world


University of Illinois at Chicago programs span the arts, business, education, humanities, basic, social and health sciences, engineering and technology, social work, urban planning and public policy.



 



College of Applied Health Sciences






The UIC College of Applied Health Sciences is nationally known for educating professionals who help people achieve or maintain the health and freedom to live the lives they choose for themselves.
The college has five departments: biomedical and health information sciences, disability and human development, kinesiology and nutrition, occupational therapy, and physical therapy. Areas of concentration include diet and exercise, cardiovascular health, motor control, neuroscience, rehabilitation science, physical therapy, occupational therapy, health information management, biomedical and health informatics, medical illustration and disability advocacy.














 



College of Architecture, Design, and the Arts






The UIC College of Architecture, Design, and the Arts educates and mentors the next generation of visual and performing artists, designers, architects, art historians and museum professionals.
The college has four schools: architecture, art and art history, design, and theatre and music. The faculty, internationally recognized in their fields, foster a transformative learning environment. The goal: to help students become critical thinkers, innovative practitioners, involved community members and leading professionals.











 



College of Business Administration






UIC Business transforms student potential into career success, with the proven skills to become leaders in today’s global economy. Students connect to Chicago’s living classroom through project-based courses, case competitions and a full-service Business Career Center.
The college focuses on the core disciplines: accounting, finance, information management, marketing and management. Working professionals can study in flexible MBA programs and an online undergraduate completion program for transfer students.

















 



College of Dentistry






The UIC College of Dentistry, which celebrated its centennial in 2013, trains leaders who give back to their communities. Students work in underserved areas in Chicago, the U.S. and other countries, and at student-run clinics for patients who are homeless or uninsured.
Besides the Doctor of Dental Medicine degree, the college offers graduate degrees for future researchers and educators. The DMD Advanced Standing program offers a path for dentists who trained outside the U.S. to practice in this country.














 



College of Education






The UIC College of Education produces educators who make good on the promise of public education in Chicago and communities around the country. Its mission includes a focus on educating African American and Latino children, the majority of Chicago Public Schools students.
The college offers undergraduate and graduate programs to develop teachers, principals, researchers and community leaders. The goal: social change through education that fosters self-worth, self-confidence and self-advocacy.














 



College of Engineering






The UIC College of Engineering offers learning, research and internships for a fulfilling career. Engineering and computer science graduates excel in areas from biotechnology, cybersecurity and information technology to nanotechnology, civil infrastructure, and energy/environmental technology.
The college’s 20 student organizations offer hands-on learning and professional development. More than 500 companies and organizations have hired UIC students and graduates over the last two years. UIC engineering graduates help drive social and economic progress in business, industry, government and education.











 



Graduate College






The UIC Graduate College supports the research, scholarship and success of over 8,000 graduate students in 64 doctoral and 98 master’s degree programs. Working with the other UIC colleges, the Graduate College provides professional development opportunities for academic success and future careers. With programs like PASSAGE Scholars, the college follows UIC’s commitment to increasing the number of underrepresented students in graduate studies.











 



Honors College






With faculty mentors and small class size, the UIC Honors College offers exceptional students many opportunities for advanced intellectual growth, leadership and community service. Students participate in undergraduate research, internships, study abroad and other activities. In their senior year, they complete an Honors Capstone project. A GPA of at least 3.4 is required for the Honors College.











 



College of Liberal Arts and Sciences






The UIC College of Liberal Arts and Sciences is dedicated to the idea that a strong liberal arts and sciences education is the best foundation for a bright future.
By taking courses across a broad range of disciplines — including literature, biology, history, economics, foreign languages and more — students gain the critical skills to succeed in any field. The result: creative problem-solvers, effective communicators and strong leaders.














 



College of Medicine






At the UIC College of Medicine, clinical experience begins in the first two years. The college is the nation’s largest medical school, with campuses in Chicago, Rockford and Peoria that provide urban and rural experience. College of Medicine faculty and fellows are on the forefront of new knowledge, including neuroscience, psychiatry, cancer and genetics. The MD program prepares students for careers in medical practice, research, teaching and community medicine. Through joint degree programs, medical students can also earn a graduate degree in business, public health, law or science.























 



College of Nursing






The UIC College of Nursing is ranked 23rd nationally by U.S. News & World Report, and six of its specialty programs ranked even higher: family nurse practitioner (7th), nursing administration (8th), midwifery (10th), gerontology nurse practitioner (10th), pediatric nurse practitioner (12th) and psychiatric nurse practitioner (13th). The college is among the top National Institutes of Health-funded colleges of nursing, and has ranked in the top 4 for the last 25 years.


























 



College of Pharmacy






The UIC College of Pharmacy has shaped pharmaceutical research, education and practice for more than 150 years. With campuses in Chicago and Rockford, the college prepares students for the changing world of pharmacy and offers hands-on learning in urban and rural settings.
The college is ranked No. 6 among the best colleges of pharmacy by U.S. News & World Report and is No. 7 in research funding from the National Institutes of Health.




















 



School of Public Health






The UIC School of Public Health is the only public health school in Illinois accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health. Dedicating to creating a healthy society, the school emphasizes real-world learning to make a difference in populations around the world.
Through partnerships with community groups and government agencies, students and faculty are involved in projects that include violence prevention, HIV/AIDS prevention, water quality, maternal and child health, emergency and disaster preparedness, asthma education and health disparities.














 



Jane Addams College of Social Work






The UIC Jane Addams College of Social Work carries forward the mission of Jane Addams and the Hull-House movement, adapting social work to the needs and realities of today’s urban settings.
As a premier institution for graduate study, the college is a recognized leader in social work research, education and service. Faculty, staff and students share a commitment to social justice and a passion for making a difference in the world, working with communities, policymakers, agencies and individuals.











 



College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs






The UIC College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs has an international reputation for promoting just, resilient and livable communities — cities that work.
The college and its two departments of Public Administration and Urban Planning and Policy improve the quality of urban life through education, research and community engagement in transportation, housing, economic development, policy analysis, government finance and more. Students get hands-on experience in internships with more than 100 agencies and companies in the Chicago area.
 














 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








