


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 























 
 





Student Support

UIC supports learning and personal development


Our goal is to give students a wide range of experiences that build skills for school and life. The University of Illinois at Chicago helps students succeed in a challenging, exciting and diverse global community of scholars.



 



Academic support






UIC offers the tools and support you need for the best college experience possible. We provide access to extensive academic and student support services that help in your courses and in connecting with classmates. Peer mentoring, tutoring and specialized workshops make your academic experience better.
All students are encouraged to take advantage of these resources and academic guidance.

































































 



Financial support






Most students need help paying for college. UIC’s  can advise you on the paperwork required and deadlines that must be met to apply for loans and grants. They can also tell you about public and private scholarships.
The can help you find a part-time job, either working for UIC on campus or for an off-campus employer.
Current undergraduates and professional students can seek help finding scholarships and fellowships through the and the .  Graduate students can find similar help directly from the .























 



Social and cultural support






College is more than academics. The opportunity to grow socially and culturally is just as important. UIC offers resources dedicated to student involvement, support, networking and social interaction.
 is your source for live events, cultural programs, diverse student organizations and student-produced entertainment.
Students can enhance their learning and development through , co-curricular programs that focus on three key areas: urban exploration, inquiring minds and community.
The  oversees seven  that provide support to specific populations on campus and opportunities for intercultural engagement among students, faculty, staff and Chicago communities.



































 



Health and wellness






At UIC, our students’ health and well-being are just as important as their classroom success.  That’s why all students are automatically enrolled in the convenient  health insurance program. CampusCare provides students with basic health services on campus. The Family Medicine Center also offers care to students and provides referrals to specialty services.
Students can work out, take a class, train with an instructor or get a massage at UIC’s state-of-the-art . The  promotes healthy attitudes and behaviors through information, educational programs and skill-building activities. UIC’s  helps students deal with stress, cope with the transition to college, gain strength from gender and cultural identity, and manage mental illness.




















 



Career support






An exciting future lies beyond the walls of UIC, and we want to assist you in your transition from student to professional.
The  provides educational workshops to help you write résumés and cover letters, search for jobs, learn interview and networking tips, use social media in your job search and many more topics. The office also provides guidance if you are undecided in your major or are considering graduate school.
We can also help you navigate job sites on the Internet, find career fairs and secure an internship.
Your new career awaits. We can help make it happen.











 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








