










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  







Home

 










 
 


 

Homepage Slideshow


















  
  
 This photo is from the 2015 Illinois African American and Latino Higher Education Alliance (IALHEA) Research Forum, held at the Student Center East building 



  
  
 The Image of Research is an annual exhibit competition to showcase graduate research at UIC. "KNEEL" by Kaleb Dean, Graphic Design won First Place in the 2018 competition. 



  
  
 The Image of Research is an annual exhibit competition to showcase graduate research at UIC. "Not a cell, not quite an organ", by Tara McCray, Pathology won Second Place in the 2018 competition. 



  
  
 The Image of Research is an annual exhibit competition to showcase graduate research at UIC. "Advanced 3D printed casting molds for facial prostheses", by Yu-hui Huang, Clinical and Translational Science was a Finalist in the 2018 competition. 



  
  
 The Image of Research is an annual exhibit competition to showcase graduate research at UIC. "Resonant Design: The Transparent Speaker" by Nuzhat Binte Arif, Industrial Design was an Honorable Mention in the 2018 competition. 





 

  






Featured




  
 Nov 20, 2018 
  
  meant reinventing my...  

  
 Mar 27, 2017 
  
 University of Illinois at Chicago can't often claim bragging rights over its bigger sibling downstate, certainly not when it comes to tech. But...  





 
 

 

Education News




  
 Posted: Dec 11, 2018 
 New study says scientists are leaving academic work at unprecedented rates 
 The “half-life” of academic scientists has shortened dramatically over time, says a new paper calling attention to the “rise of...  

  
 Posted: Dec 06, 2018 
 New research on graduate student mental well-being says departments have important roles to play in fostering healthy environments 
 From impostor syndrome and other feelings of being out of place, to periods of isolation and to constant short- and long-term deadlines, graduate...  

  
 Posted: Dec 03, 2018 
 Managing a job interview when "do you have any questions?" is the only question asked (opinion) 
 What do you do when "Do you have any questions for us?" is the only question you are asked? Joseph Barber provides some strategies.
  

  
 Posted: Nov 28, 2018 
 Advice on planning when and how to leave academe (opinion) 
 Beth Godbee gives guidance for planning when and how to exit academe.
  





 
 

  





Diversity Matters






The Graduate College Office for Recruitment and Diversity Affairs furthers UIC's commitment to a diverse and enriched educational environment. We offer professional development, fellowships, and other initiatives to recruit, retain, and ensure the success of underrepresented graduate students.





 

 

Fellowships & Awards




  
 Posted: Apr 17, 2019 
 Award for Graduate Research 
 The Graduate College’s longest-running support for research by graduate students at UIC is the Award for Graduate Research (AGR), which was formerly...  

  
 Posted: Sep 19, 2018 
 Provost's Graduate Research Award 
 The Provost’s Graduate Research Award (named the Chancellor's Graduate Research Award prior to Spring 2018) has been revised in an effort to maximize...  

  
 Posted: Mar 24, 2017 
 Interdisciplinary Collaboration in the Arts and Humanities (ICAH) Award 
 Venus flytrap in the Green Swamp of Supply, North Carolina. Photograph taken by Courtney Prokopas as part of her 2014 ICAH project in collaboration...  

  
 Posted: May 13, 2016 
 2016 ICAH Winners Announced 
 The Graduate College is pleased to announce the winning team for the 2016 Interdisciplinary Collaboration in the Arts and Humanities (ICAH) Award....  





 
 

  





Announcements & Updates




 General 
 Posted: Aug 25, 2018 
  
 The 2018 Communicating Science Conference in Chicago (ComSciCon - Chicago) offers their sincere appreciation for the support provided by the...  

 Funding 
 Posted: Dec 01, 2017 
  
 The Graduate College is pleased to announce the winners of the following fall competitions:
...  

 Resources 
 Posted: Sep 05, 2017 
  
 The Office of the Dean of Students would like you to know about U & I Care's response to the the federal government's plan to rescind DACA (...  

 General 
 Posted: Jan 11, 2017 
  
 We are pleased to announce that the   





 
 

 

Program Data




  
 Enrollment Management Reports 
   

  
 Graduate College Fact Sheet 
   





 
 

  













 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


