


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 




The University of Illinois at Chicago 
Research












 


























UIC is a leader in research






As Chicago’s only public research university, real-world problems are solved through innovation and discovery. Research at the University of Illinois at Chicago is re-shaping educational policy; developing cleaner, more sustainable energy; helping to make sense of today’s vast amounts of computer-generated data; and driving economic development by moving research to practical application. Outstanding programs range from the creation of new medical diagnostic techniques to turning carbon dioxide into fuel. You will find opportunities to pursue your interests in depth with researchers on the cutting edge of discovery in the humanities, social sciences, natural and medical sciences and engineering.





Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research

            Learn what one of America's premier urban public research universities has to offer
        
 
Office of Technology Management

            By aiding in the transfer and commercialization of research, UIC ensures that society benefits from discoveries as quickly as possible
        
 
Undergraduate Research

            An important benefit of studying at a prestigious urban public research university: working with the world's top scholars
        
   




Health sciences






UIC is one of the nation’s top federally funded public research universities. Student and faculty investigators in UIC’s seven health sciences colleges work in an interdisciplinary research environment, with access to advanced research facilities, support for research design and data analysis, and a diverse patient population through the .
From finding new ways to treat Type 1 diabetes, to predicting which antidepressants work best for which people to identifying how alcohol affects gene expression and influences fetal development, discoveries made at UIC lead to a better understanding of the world and contribute to advances in the diagnosis and treatment of disease.




 



Student focus






Teaching and research are a potent blend — one informs the other. Science is a process for learning about the world, not a list of facts to memorize. Researchers bring a deep understanding of the scientific enterprise and a sense of the wonder of discovery to the classroom.
UIC students have research opportunities that help them gain real-world experience in the classroom as they work side-by-side with federal grant-funded investigators.



































 



Multidisciplinary research






UIC researchers are developing new ideas every day to transform lives. With a wealth of knowledge in varied backgrounds, more can be accomplished when working together.
UIC supports multidisciplinary research in many ways. The  provides up to $40,000 over a two-year period to support collaborations between emerging research leaders. The program advances new partnerships, furthers the careers of promising new investigators and creates initial data to submit to outside organizations for future research and funding.
UIC wants to assist multidisciplinary teams any way it can, and the  provides detailed information on external funding sources, such as listservs, weekly grant news, advice and analysis and upcoming deadlines.

















 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








