


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 


























 
 





Resources & Facilities

UIC’s Research Resource Center supports investigators with equipment, facilities and technical help


The University of Illinois at Chicago is a pioneer in providing a comprehensive center with dedicated core facilities that give researchers access to the most up-to-date research tools.



 



Research support






UIC’s  provides the UIC community with access to high-tech research equipment and the RRC’s 65 employees help researchers use the technology in chemical, biological and structural analysis; data interpretation; and problem solving. The center’s services cover more 20 core areas, such as light and electron microscopy, DNA services and genomics, and research informatics.
The Center for Structural Biology, for example, supports x-ray crystallography and small molecule characterization via three high-field NMR spectrometers operating at 600, 800 and 900 MHz proton frequencies and user support. The center also has a 750 MHz instrument for solid samples.
The addition of a high-performance computing cluster (HPCC) at UIC has significantly expanded capabilities and teaching opportunities across campus. This HPCC enables big data computing, data storage and data transfer. The DNA Services facility has also increased its services and now includes next-generation sequencing abilities and a full array of scientific instrumentation and resources for RNA and DNA profiling.
The newly renovated Light Microscopy Core facility has an exceptional collection of hi-res, and live-cell and tissue imaging platforms. And, with the recent addition of state-of-the-art cytometry, sorting and single cell proteomics instrumentation, the Flow Cytometry Core facility has helped to advance biomedical research on campus.











 



Centers & Institutes






Cancer. Children’s environmental health. Clinical and translational science. Wound healing and tissue regeneration. These are just a few of the UIC centers and programs focused on making human life better. Through collaboration with groups like the World Health Organization, discoveries made at UIC make a big impact on people around the globe.
UIC students play a critical role in this work. They join faculty members, scientists and clinicians in conducting this groundbreaking research. These hands-on educational opportunities are open to students in liberal arts and sciences, public health, dentistry, nursing, medicine and more.











 



Library






The  supports  you during the entire research process: discovery, use, dissemination and archiving.
Discovery

Library 
Consultations with 
 via phone, email, IM chat, drop-in and by appointment
Get access to 
Learn, discover and research with our extensive  and 

Use

Install the Browzine app to read e-journals on your mobile device
Manage citations and produce bibliographies in any format with 

Dissemination

Advice on writing a  to fulfill federal requirements from the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health and others
Evaluate emerging publishing models such as  journals
Answer  questions
Identify  and conduct citation analyses of individuals or groups

Archiving

Ensure long-term access to research by archiving papers, presentations and data in , the campus institutional repository












 



Resources for interdisciplinary research




UIC encourages research that changes lives. Many centers, labs and institutes at UIC promote collaboration across the sciences and humanities. The goal of these groups is to discover solutions to complex local, national and global concerns.











Institute for Health Research and Policy

The  is a campus-wide unit where UIC scientists with a multidisciplinary perspective collaborate to find solutions to today’s complex health problems. The institute focuses on the major risk factors for premature death and disability and ways to promote disease-free lives, especially among segments of the population who suffer health disparities.
Here, faculty from 10 colleges belong to an intellectual community of innovative researchers who move science into policy, practice and the community. The institute mentors these scientists in advancing their scientific goals and provides expert infrastructure, covering all aspects of research management, implementation, security and dissemination.


 















Center for Clinical and Translational Sciences

The  is UIC’s hub for clinical and translational health research.  The center seeks to accelerate the process of turning scientific discoveries into new tools and treatments that help prevent disease and improve the health of our communities.
Since 2008, the center has provided resources and services that support the health research efforts of faculty and students in the colleges of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Nursing, Applied Health Sciences, Social Work, and the School of Public Health.


 















Institute for Environmental Science and Policy

The  is a research center that promotes science in support of a sustainable future. Solutions to modern environmental problems facing society are increasingly national and global, and their complexity requires that many scholars work together.
The Institute inspires discovery and interdisciplinary collaboration by teaming scholars with their counterparts in the public and private sectors to devise workable solutions for complex environmental challenges, particularly those problems unique to the urban environment.


 















Institute for the Humanities

For more than 30 years, faculty and student research has been supported by the . Its fellowship program and research awards for faculty have led to major books and articles in the humanities. The Institute also gives humanities graduate students writing support and mentoring.
The institute supports a variety of working groups each year to encourage interdisciplinary research at UIC. Groups such as Health and Society, Political Ecologies, and Digital Humanities link humanities scholars with researchers in the sciences, public health, and medicine.
Recently the Institute launched a new series of small conferences on “Cutting Edge Issues in the Humanities.” These conferences are made to bring UIC faculty together with visiting scholars to explore new questions, debates and methodologies in the humanities.


 















Urban Data Visualization Laboratory

Some data is best communicated through visuals.  The , part of the college of Urban Planning and Public Affairs, works with researchers throughout campus.  For faculty and students, the lab makes data visually understandable and more useful through mapping, geospatial data analysis, presentation formatting and data management.
Researchers can visually find patterns in their data, present data in 3-D form, model spatial relationships, or compare their data with census data. Lab faculty and staff also teach courses in visualization and geographic information systems to provide students with valuable job skills.


 







 



Biologic Resources Laboratory




The  manages the care of animals used in research and teaching in UIC’s fully-accredited Animal Care and Use Program. This includes making sure that UIC meets all government regulations and best practices in its treatment of animals. The professional staff of the lab includes five board certified veterinarians and 40 animal care technicians; they are responsible for helping about 300 researchers, teaching graduate and technical courses, and directing the postdoctoral training program.



 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








