


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 


























 
 





Student Research

At UIC, learning isn’t limited to classrooms


University of Illinois at Chicago students conduct research in business, education, engineering, humanities and the arts, natural sciences, mathematics, the social sciences and other fields. Undergraduate and graduate students work with renowned researchers through programs that pair them with faculty mentors who have similar interests.



 



Fostering success






Nothing can compete with the real-world experience of research. No classroom can offer the excitement of discovery, the wonder of being the first person to know how something works. The experience can be life changing.
UIC offers that experience to every student.
Programs throughout the university match students with scholars who help them further their research interests and achievements. Advising, matching, mentoring and internships are available.
The  pairs students with faculty who have the same research interests. The Honors College programs, including the , match Honors College students after their freshman year with faculty in business, education, engineering, the humanities and the arts, natural sciences, mathematics and the social sciences.
Students in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences can learn more about undergraduate research programs in their field, and information about financial support, from the .
Beginning the summer after their first year, students in the College of Engineering can be matched into paid internships through the .
No matter what your field or interest, UIC opens the door to the exciting world of research.




















 









Research at UIC takes you far

Victor Mateevitsi, an Electronic Visualization Laboratory research assistant and Ph.D. candidate, won international recognition for inventing a “spidey sense” suit. The wearable suit lets users “sense” obstacles without actually seeing them. His research led to an internship with Pixar Animation Studios.








 



Cultivating potential




Students spend countless hours in laboratories, hospitals, libraries and in the community to collect data for their research. UIC celebrates these efforts at college research days and the annual campus-wide Student Research Forum.











Student Research Forum

The UIC Student Research Forum showcases undergraduate, graduate and professional students from all disciplines. They present their work one-on-one to judges and the public during a high-energy three-hour session, followed by an awards ceremony.
Students’ work is judged by faculty members and alumni. Winners from each category take home prizes ranging from $100 to $300.
 


 















Student organizations

 has more than 75 professionally oriented student organizations, from accounting to engineering to pharmacy and more. These organizations offer leadership experience and help you develop professional networks, find internships and further your education in your field of interest.


 















Women's Health Research Day

At UIC’s Women’s Health Research Day, students network and share insights with colleagues and faculty through posters and oral presentations showcasing research on women’s health and gender issues. The annual event, sponsored by  and the , features speakers whose work has advanced understanding of women’s health and gender issues.


 















Engineering EXPO

It’s the coolest science fair, ever: row upon row of tables of devices that light up, complicated gadgets with wires going every which way, contraptions with computer readouts and scale models of green space with tiny trees and fake grass.
Senior engineering students identify a real-world problem, develop an inventive solution, then present the results to representatives from local industries.


 







 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








