


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 




The University of Illinois at Chicago 
Life at UIC












 


























Discover what it means to be part of the UIC community






With one of the most diverse student populations in the nation, University of Illinois at Chicago is dedicated to providing a welcoming environment for its students and fostering a sense of belonging. We’re located in a bustling city, and there’s no shortage of exciting opportunities right here on campus. Get involved in UIC’s rich campus life by .





Student Affairs

            Discover programs, services and facilities to enhance your life at UIC
        
 
Campus Housing

            Learn about living on campus, near your classes and all that Chicago has to offer
        
 
Student Centers

            Two hubs of student life where you can relax, study, eat and hang out
        
   




Getting started at UIC






So, you want to get involved. But where to start? As a freshmen you’ll get an introduction to campus life during . Then, check out the , held once each semester, to meet with members of UIC’s many student organizations. Make the most of your college career by participating in the , a collection of fun activities that will enhance your studies at UIC.

















 









Spark in the Park

UIC hosts a free, exclusive back-to-school concert just for students each fall called . Past headliners include J. Cole, Kid Cudi, Lupe Fiasco, Childish Gambino, Santigold, Kendrick Lamar, twenty one pilots  and, most recently, Young Thug.
“It’s great to see so many UIC students together and enthusiastic about something. Seeing everyone so passionate made me extremely happy to be part of Spark.”

—Isaac Pineda, a student in liberal arts and sciences







 



Recreation






Whether you’re looking for a place to work out or an intramural sport to join, UIC has plenty of options. The  and the  offer fitness classes, swimming lessons and a 43-foot rock-climbing wall.
UIC , from indoor cricket to arena football, let you enjoy time with friends while competing as a recreational athlete. Rugby and soccer intramural teams compete at UIC’s Outdoor Field Complex, which has more than 214,000 square feet of artificial turf and two multipurpose fields.

















 



Athletics






Fire up, Flames! The  compete in 20 NCAA Division 1 sports in the Horizon League, which includes ten public and private institutions. Cheering on the Flames is fun – and tickets are free for students! Give UIC mascot Sparky D. Dragon a high-five and dance to the music of the UIC Pep Band at basketball games at the UIC Pavilion. Enjoy a nice spring afternoon of baseball at Curtis Granderson Stadium, built in 2014 with a gift from the UIC alumnus and Flames’ Hall-of-Famer and current New York Mets all-star outfielder.














 









UIC's diversity

Diversity is embraced at UIC. Among UIC’s 30,000 students, there’s no racial or ethnic majority. Our  and  serve a diverse population, and foster success and a sense of community.
“I love the diversity that exists at UIC. The student population consists of so many nationalities. The common ground for us all remains that we are here to learn.”

—Matthew Maggit, Business student







 



Arts and entertainment






UIC offers plenty of great entertainment opportunities right on campus. The  hosts concerts, athletic events, festivals and cultural events. It’s also home to the UIC men’s and women’s basketball teams, Chicago Eagles indoor football team, Windy City Rollers Roller Derby and 8 Count Boxing. The  hosts a variety of events, from lectures and performances to galas and conventions.
Students take center stage to showcase their acting skills in  productions. Take a lunch break and enjoy free weekly jazz, classical and contemporary music concerts in the Tuesdays-at-One series.
Visit UIC’s  to experience contemporary art, architecture, and design through engaging exhibitions and programs. And on  you can get involved and host a show — or just sit back and listen to the music you love.

















 









LOL @ UIC

Ready to laugh? Every spring, the Student Activities Board hosts a free comedy show for UIC students with headliners such as Kenan Thompson, B.J. Novak, and Marlon and Shawn Wayans.
“It’s grown into a really great event and it’s something that’s really special to our campus.”

—Sladjana Grbic, Center for Student Involvement







 



More Life at UIC








Undergraduate Student Government

            Promoting the interests of undergraduates and giving students a voice
        
 
Graduate Student Council

            Supporting graduate students in academics and social life
        
 
Health Professions Student Council

            Representing the interests of the health-professional student body
        
 
IDEA Commons

            Space for research, presentations, group study, tutoring, reference consultations and socializing
        
 
Oasis

            Informal learning spaces around campus
        
 
Campus Programs

            Educational, social, leadership and cultural programming for students
        
 
Gallery 400

            Showcasing work at the leading edge of contemporary art, architecture and design
        
 
Jane Addams Hull-House Museum

            A dynamic memorial to social reformer Jane Addams,
        
 
 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








