


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 


























 
 





Campus Resources

UIC is an agent of change


University of Illinois at Chicago is dedicated to creating an environment that allows you to achieve your full potential. We nurture curious minds ready to take risks and eager to work hard. If you’re willing to do your part, we’ll meet you more than half way with the support, tools, resources and information you need to thrive and succeed.



 



Technology






The Academic Computing and Communications Center provides innovative technology to enrich the academic experience at UIC. ACCC’s wide range of services feature technology support, tools and systems. Popular services include email, Web-based course sites, lecture capture, online file collaboration, video tutorials, training, computer labs, printing and wireless internet access.























 



Health and wellness






As a UIC student, you have access to a wealth of resources to maintain a healthy body and mind. Students are required to be covered by major medical health insurance, so UIC offers the  Program Student Health Benefit Program.
 has two exercise facilities where you can run, play racquetball, lift weights or scale a climbing wall.  UIC’s Outdoor Field Complex offers 214,000 square feet of synthetic turf for outdoor sports.  Another outdoor facility has three lighted tennis and three basketball courts.  Students can also unwind and relax at the sauna or one of the campus pools.
 provides a variety of resources to promote emotional, environmental, intellectual, physical, social and other dimensions of wellness.
UIC is a tobacco-free campus, prohibiting all forms of tobacco—cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco, electronic cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products—anywhere within campus boundaries.























 



Academics






UIC provides you with the encouragement, tools, and support you need to succeed in the classroom and a career after graduation. UIC offers a wide range of academic support services to help you excel. The university also helps faculty become even more effective instructors.



































 



Community building and student support






Inclusion. Access. Equity. These principles guide the UIC Centers for Cultural Understanding and Social Change to expand the awareness of cultural diversity’s value to UIC and the community-at-large.
Other campus resources provide an opportunities for intercultural engagement among students, faculty, staff and Chicago communities. From cultural programs to student consultations, campus resources foster positive social change and help students make the most of their experience at UIC.









































 



Career Services






UIC offers you the tools and support you need to succeed in the classroom and launch a career after graduation. UIC’s  helps craft professional resumes and cover letters, hosts workshops focused on a variety of job hunting topics, and conducts virtual mock interviews.
 help students find internships and jobs. Several of UIC’s colleges, including business administration and engineering, have  to assist their students. The Career Services website also includes .














 



Safety






Your safety is a primary focus at UIC.
UIC Police, whose officers have statewide statutory arrest powers, works closely with the Chicago Police Department. The department has a long tradition of community policing and patrols the campus and nearby neighborhoods.
UIC’s free evening transportation service —  — is offered for students, employees and visitors when traveling between university facilities.
UIC also offers comprehensive resources for students, faculty and staff dealing with acts of sexual misconduct (i.e. sexual assault, stalking, dating violence, domestic violence), including  such as counseling services. Victims can speak to a  in a safe setting. Caring and confidentiality are assured.
The UIC ALERT system provides an emergency notification system to reach students and employees quickly. The system allows quick messaging in multiple formats, such as emergency text (SMS) alerts, emails and alerts on  and . Students and employees must  their mobile phone numbers to receive text message notifications. Official and urgent email notifications, including UIC ALERT messages, are automatically sent to UIC campus email addresses.


























 



More campus resources








Disability Resource Center

            The center facilitates access for students to classes, programs, services and campus activities
        
 
Student jobs

            Assistance to students seeking a part-time job on or off campus
        
 
Veterans

            Personalized support to UIC undergraduate and graduate student veterans
        
 
Children's Center

            Early childhood education and care to preschool children of UIC students, faculty, and staff
        
 
Financial Aid

            Assistance and resources about types and sources of financial aid
        
 
UIC SnAP

            View and apply to available scholarships at UIC
        
 
Legal services

            Resources for confidential assistance with legal questions
        
 
Academic advising

            Undergraduate advising resources
        
 
Registration and transcripts

            Register for classes, access student records and transcripts
        
 
UIC Bookstore

            Your source for books, UIC apparel and technology
        
 
Sustainability

            Learn more about initiatives and resources such as the UIC Climate Commitments, biking and recycling
        
 
UIC Library

            The University Library at the University of Illinois at Chicago supports the teaching, research and service mission of the University.
        
 
 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








