




















 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Transfer Requirements










 





 










Did you know?



DEPTH







i


















Countdown to Commit
UIC Class of 2022


Days



Hours



Minutes



Seconds












Application Requirements 

You've come to the right place to continue your education.
All Transfer applicants must meet the following core requirements to apply:
Use the . Printed applications will not be accepted.
The $60 nonrefundable application fee or fee waiver.
Official college/university transcripts, submitted electronically or via mail, from every college/university you’ve attended.
Want to know more? Walk through the .
 





College-specific Requirements 

Colleges and programs have minimum credit hour and prerequisite requirements.
See the program-specific transfer guides for an overview of transfer admission requirements.

See Transferology to determine which courses transfer to UIC.

 





Other Requirements 

Additional requirements may apply to the following applicants:
International applicants. Must meet the core transfer requirements as well as display evidence of English competency and financial certifications. See  for details. 
 applicants must be admitted as undergraduates prior to review and include the following with their application: 
An essay submitted with the application.

Applicants to the programs below must submit supplemental documents with their Common Application or UIC Web Application.





Urban Education requires ACT/SAT plus writing scores

Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate (IB) test scores are encouraged, particularly if they may count towards credit that satisfies your program's prerequisites. 
ACT or SAT test scores may be required for the following applicants:
Applicants to the BA in Urban Education program are required to submit ACT/SAT plus writing scores.
Any transfer applicant with fewer than 36 hours of credit at the time of enrollment.

International Credential Evaluation Fee. A mandatory, non-refundable $50 International Credential Evaluation Fee is assessed for all undergraduate degree-seeking applicants who have post-secondary coursework taken outside the United States. International applicants who have only U.S. coursework are not required to submit this fee. Study abroad coursework by U.S. students is excluded from this policy. The fee is assessed once per application term. Payment of the fee will be requested online through the application system.

 





Partnership Programs 

UIC maintains special transfer programs with participating colleges and universities.
See if your school participates. 




As a participant in the , UIC allows transfer of completed IAI General Education Core Curriculum (GECC) between participating Illinois institutions.
 










 












Related Resources




















NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY OF THE UIC ANNUAL SECURITY AND FIRE SAFETY REPORT
The University of Illinois at Chicago is pleased to share the  with all prospective students. The report contains information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, public safety authority, crime reporting policies, fire safety, disciplinary procedures, and fire statistics in UIC residential facilities and crime statistics for the three previous calendar years.  The full text of this report is available online on the UIC Clery Website at . If you would like to receive a copy on paper, visit the Office of Preparedness & Response, located at 1140 South Paulina Street, Suite 109, Chicago, IL 60612.

























 










Office of Admissions
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161  
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.
 


 






 





















Copyright © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois







 

T










Default
Default




Close





