




















 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Requirements & Deadlines









 




 





















What type of applicant are you? 

 Domestic Graduate Degree-Seeking
Degree-seeking application requirements for domestic applicants (US Citizens, Permanent Residents, Adjustment in Status, etc.) and applicants with US transcripts.
  



 International Graduate Degree-Seeking
Degree-seeking application requirements and other information relevant to International applicants and applicants who have done foreign study, including academic credential requirements, English proficiency and visa processing.
  



 Graduate Non-degree
Is non-degree study what you're looking for? Graduate non-degree students are those with at least a Bachelor's degree who wish to take courses for academic, professional or personal enrichment, without enrolling in a degree program.
  



 Certificate
UIC offers IBHE Certificates and Campus Certificates. Click the link below to find out more about these certificate options for Graduate-level study at UIC.
  



 Professional
Information on applying to the clinical professional doctorates offered by the Colleges of Applied Health Sciences, Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing and Pharmacy
  






 







Check Application Deadlines 








Related Resources Links
















NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY OF THE UIC ANNUAL SECURITY AND FIRE SAFETY REPORT
The University of Illinois at Chicago is pleased to share the  with all prospective students. The report contains information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, public safety authority, crime reporting policies, fire safety, disciplinary procedures, and fire statistics in UIC residential facilities and crime statistics for the three previous calendar years.  The full text of this report is available online on the UIC Clery Website at . If you would like to receive a copy on paper, visit the Office of Preparedness & Response, located at 1140 South Paulina Street, Suite 109, Chicago, IL 60612.

























 










Office of Admissions
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161  
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.
 


 






 





















Copyright © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois







 

T









