




















 
S




Search Input



Submit
 




M





Graduate Certificates










 





 










Did you know?



DEPTH







i
























Certificate Overview 

UIC has two categories of graduate level certificate programs. Instruction in either category may be online, blended or on-campus. Access the links below for more information about the individual certificates within the Graduate Catalog.

Considered non-degree enrollment


Considered degree-seeking enrollment
Requires the completion of more semester hours than Campus Certificate programs.

 





Applying for a Certificate 

IBHE Certificates
IBHE Certificate program applications are accessible through the . 
Refer to the  and  for information on admission requirements and important application deadlines for the programs.
Campus Certificates
See the  for the appropriate application link for Campus Certificates. After you have logged into the application system and started a new application, select "Graduate Campus Certificate" from the Application Type screen.
As Campus Certificate programs are considered non-degree enrollment, refer to the  for relevant application requirements for departmental non-degree applications. Please also see the  for important Campus Certificate application deadlines.
Certificates with Special Application Procedures
The following certificate programs use a separate application or process. Click on the certificate program to be directed to the program’s website for the relevant application information.
 (Applied Health Sciences) - post-baccalaureate Campus Certificate – on-campus
 (Engineering) - post-baccalaureate Campus Certificate – online
(Engineering) - post-baccalaureate Campus Certificate – online
(Engineering) - post-baccalaureate Campus Certificate – online
 (Social Work) - post-baccalaureate IBHE Certificate – on-campus
 (Applied Health Sciences) - post-baccalaureate Campus Certificate – on-campus
 (Medicine) - post-baccalaureate Campus Certificate – online
(Liberal Arts and Sciences) - post-baccalaureate Campus Certificate – on-campus
 (Engineering) - post-baccalaureate Campus Certificate – online
 





Prospective International Applicants 

Online Certificates - IBHE & Campus Certificates
Submission of financial documents for visa processing is not required.

Blended or On-Campus Certificates
IBHE Certificates: Submission of financial documents for visa processing is required for those who would need a student visa (F1) to enroll at UIC.
Campus Certificates: International applicants who would require a student visa are not eligible for admission to campus certificates unless they are already registered in a post-baccalaureate degree program at UIC.

If all prior coursework was done abroad,  may apply.
 










 












Related Resources















NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY OF THE UIC ANNUAL SECURITY AND FIRE SAFETY REPORT
The University of Illinois at Chicago is pleased to share the  with all prospective students. The report contains information regarding campus security and personal safety including topics such as: crime prevention, public safety authority, crime reporting policies, fire safety, disciplinary procedures, and fire statistics in UIC residential facilities and crime statistics for the three previous calendar years.  The full text of this report is available online on the UIC Clery Website at . If you would like to receive a copy on paper, visit the Office of Preparedness & Response, located at 1140 South Paulina Street, Suite 109, Chicago, IL 60612.

























 










Office of Admissions
1200 West Harrison Street
Chicago, IL 60607-7161
Phone: (312) 996-4350
 


 









Mailing Address
Undergraduate
Office of Undergraduate Admissions (MC 018) 
University of Illinois at Chicago 
1200 West Harrison Street, Suite 1100
Chicago, IL 60607-7161  
 
Graduate & Professional
The graduate and professional application process is paperless. Please do not mail materials unless expressly requested.
 


 






 





















Copyright © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois







 

T









