


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 




The University of Illinois at Chicago 
Alumni












 














You are UIC






Your alma mater is uniquely poised to meet the next century in a way no one else can. As we forge the future of public education and prove how it should work for the world, we are committing to engaging with you in new ways and joining with you to support our students, faculty and communities.
We’ll work together during IGNITE: The Campaign for UIC to redefine the model for student success, empower faculty, drive life-changing discovery and strengthen connections to communities at home and around the world.
At the same time, our first UIC Alumni Association brings your strong alumni network together and allows us to reimagine the opportunities we create for you to engage with UIC and one another in meaningful ways.





Learn about IGNITE 

            See how UIC impacts students, faculty, research and our communities and how we will continue carrying out our mission through the campaign.
        
 
UIC Alumni Association 

            Find out how UIC can serve you as an alumnus and how you can engage with UIC students and faculty through the first ever UIC Alumni Association.
        
 
Alumni Events

            Reconnect with your alma mater and fellow alumni at one of our upcoming alumni events.
        
 
Read our stories

            Get to know some of our extraordinary alumni and learn about student successes, our empowered faculty, the new knowledge we discover and how we connect to communities.
        
 
Meet the Office of Advancement

            Learn who we are and what we do.
        
 
Update your information

            Keep up with UIC by updating your contact information.
        
 
Give Now

            Make an impact at now
        
 
How would you like to engage?

            Tell us what opportunities interest you.
        
   








 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








