 














































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 





Scholarships
















Breadcrumbs



Scholarships




Scholarships
A scholarship is gift assistance that does not have to be repaid. Scholarships are awarded based on a student's academic achievement, athletic ability, field of study, special talents, etc.
Notify SFAS of All Scholarships
Students must report outside scholarships so SFAS can recalculate aid eligibility. If students have remaining unmet need or have not exceeded their , other awards will not be affected. Once federal need or COA is met, outside assistance may result in the reduction of Federal Work Study, student loans, or other grants and scholarships to remain compliant with federal regulations. If SFAS is notified that a student will receive outside assistance after receiving a refund, they will be 100% responsible for repaying any refund adjustment.




Scholarships





            Aim High (Chancellor's Fellows Program)
        






Aim High Scholarship
The Aim High Scholarship is a new state program beginning in the 2019/2020 academic year. The scholarship will be awarded by UIC and cover full tuition and fees (after all state and federal gift aid has been exhausted) for 1st time Illinois college freshmen. Special consideration will be given to Honors College students.
Eligibility Criteria:

Illinois residency
Must be a graduate from an IL high school with a minimum 3.8 unweighted GPA and score of 1360+ on the SAT (CR+M) or 30+ on the ACT
OR Illinois high school valedictorians at high schools that rank
Must apply for admission to UIC by November 1st Early Action deadline
Must apply for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by November 1st
Total family income cannot exceed 6 times the 
Enroll in a minimum of 12 credit hours per semester
Renewal for up to 8 consecutive, full-time fall or spring semesters








            State Programs
        






state programs
For applications for the state programs listed below visit the .
Golden Apple Scholars of Illinois
The Golden Apple Scholars of Illinois recruits and prepares bright and talented high school graduates for successful teaching careers. Students may self-nominate or be nominated by a teacher, counselor, principal or other unrelated adult. Students must be nominated on or before November 30 for the upcoming school year.
Special Education Teacher Tuition Waiver Program
The Special Education Teacher Tuition Waiver (SETTW) encourages Illinois residents to pursue degrees in Special Education Teaching certification programs at state universities. SETTW recipients receive a waiver of tuition and all fees excluding the CTA transit fee and Campus Care Insurance (if applicable). Students who receive the waiver must commit to working as a Special Education teacher in the state of Illinois. If the teaching commitment is not fulfilled, students must repay the entire amount plus interest. Applications are due by March 1 for the upcoming year.
Minority Teacher of Illinois
The Minority Teacher of Illinois (MTI) Scholarship Program encourages talented students to pursue careers as teachers at nonprofit Illinois preschool, elementary and secondary schools. The program aims to provide minority children with access to a greater number of positive minority role models. Recipients must agree to begin teaching within one year of graduation at a nonprofit Illinois public, private, or parochial preschool, elementary or secondary school that the Illinois State Board of Education has certified as a school with at least 30% minority students. Applications are due March 1 for the upcoming year.







            Institutional Programs
        






internal scholarships
To be considered for most university scholarships and awards, incoming undergraduate students need only complete the main UIC admission application; no additional steps are necessary. Students interested in the Honors College must complete an additional  for consideration. 
Other Institutional Scholarships
The University of Illinois at Chicago offers a range of scholarships for incoming, transfer and continuing students. Information is available on the  website. Additionally, students are encouraged to visit  to access scholarship descriptions and applications.
Current undergraduate and professional school students interested in applying for nationally and internationally competitive scholarships, fellowships and external scholarship awards such as the Goldwater, Truman, and Fullbright are encouraged to visit the .
UIC graduate students are encouraged to contact the Fellowships and Financial Aid Coordinator at the Graduate College. For more information related to funding for graduate degree programs or visit the .










SUBSCRIBE TO THE UIC SCHOLARSHIPS MAILING LIST!
Simply provide us with your UIC email address and we will add you to the enewsletter distribution.
After joining our mailing list, you will receive an enewsletter publicizing scholarships and related opportunities. 



Listserv subscription form



Name *  Required


First



Last

Email *  Required


Enter Email



Confirm Email




  










This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms.





































































































Quick Links



















RESOURCES

























TOOLS





















Footer Buttons
















Contact
 1200 W. Harrison Street, 1800 SSB Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















