










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Funding Your Education



































  




You are here»»
External Fellowship Campus Deadlines

 








U.S. Fulbright Student Grants
The campus deadline for the U.S. Fulbright student grants is Monday, September 10, 2018. The early deadline is required for the campus review process.  You will have the opportunity to modify your application prior to the final submission deadline of October 9, 2018.  For questions on the online application or supplementary hard-copy materials, please go to the .
DAAD Study Scholarships and Research Grants
Competition is currently closed for the DAAD  and , two of many awards offered by the . As UIC is a Partner University, applicants are required to go through a campus-based pre-selection committee review. Applicants must read the following instructions carefully, as the campus review is significantly different this year.
The campus deadline for both awards is anticipated to be in mid-October of 2018.  Each applicant must submit an application packet (either electronically as a single PDF, or in hard copy) containing the following materials:

CV (max. 3 pages)


List of publications (max. 5 pages), if applicable

Extensive and detailed description of the research proposal (five pages max) which includes a description of previous research work
Schedule of planned research work
Letter confirming supervision by an academic advisor in Germany, which refers to the aplicant's proposal and confirms that the host institution will provide a workplace

For ABD students, letter of confirmation of ABD status from faculty advisor
Transcripts 
Applicants should carefully and thoroughly review the information at the  and  websites for further information on these materials. Check for updates here as well, in the fall 2018 semester. 
While the final application to the DAAD is electronic, the campus pre-selection committee does not need a copy of the electronic application, since that application can only be completed in one sitting, and cannot be retrieved the an applicant once it is submitted. Rather, students will work with the Fellowship Coordinator and the pre-selection committee on the proposal in order to be able to submit the strongest possible application electronically by the final institutional November deadline.
After the pre-selection committee review, applicants must submit the application electronically and bring a signed hard copy of that application to the  External Fellowship Coordinator. The Fellowships Office is required to send all applications in one package to the DAAD on that date.
 
 
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


