 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu





























































































































































































Eyebrow menu

















UIC menu










Search the site














 














Collegeof Education




College of Education
Making good on the promise of public education











Preparing teachers, researchers, principals, superintendents and community leaders to strengthen urban neighborhoods in Chicago and across the nation






Get Started












Learn About Programs










Information Sessions










Apply Now


















Current Students Resources








College by the Numbers





1in 7 
CPS students engaged with a College of Education-prepared teacher.







1in 11 
CPS students learning at a school led by a College of Education-prepared principal.







$10million 
in new research and outreach funding in 2017-18.










News Highlights





            CPS Chief Janice Jackson on UIC: ‘I made the right choice’
        

            Monday, November 19, 2018
        

                Janice Jackson has been involved in the Chicago Public Schools her entire life. She was a CPS student from Head Start, an early education program for low-income families, through 12th grade, then began…
            














        Programs
      










                Undergraduate Programs
              


                Masters Programs
              


                Doctoral Programs
              




Undergraduate Programs

                Preparing students to work in both classroom settings and in the community.
              



Undergraduate Program Links





            BA Human Development and Learning
        







            BA Urban Education - Elementary Education
        









Masters Programs

                Our alumni work in school contexts, with youth, as researchers and as leaders of community organizations.
              



Masters Programs Links





            MEd Early Childhood Education
        







            MEd Educational Policy Studies
        







            MEd Educational Studies
        







            MEd Language, Literacies & Learning
        







            MEd MESA
        

                Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics & Assessment
            







            MEd MESA Online
        

                Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics & Assessment
            







            MEd Science Education
        







            MEd Special Education
        







            MEd Youth Development
        









Doctoral Programs

                Preparing education researchers, administrators, faculty and school leaders.
              



Doctoral Program Links





            PhD Curriculum Studies
        







            PhD Educational Psychology
        







            PhD Literacy, Language & Culture
        







            PhD Mathematics & Science Education
        







            PhD Policy Studies in Urban Education
        

                Educational Organization & Leadership Concentration
            







            PhD Policy Studies in Urban Education
        

                Social Foundations of Education Concentration
            







            PhD Special Education
        







            EdD Urban Education Leadership
        















Student Resources







            Academic Resources
        

                All the tools you need to navigate your academic career at UIC.
            









            Financial Aid
        

                UIC students received $6.9 million in total assistance in 2017-18.
            









            Student Organizations
        

                Get involved in the life of the college.
            









            Events
        

                Workshops, lectures, student organization meetings and more.
            










Community Impact
The College of Education is dedicated to serving communities locally, nationally and globally, strengthening life opportunities for children and their families.





































Collegeof Education






Prospective Students
















Faculty and Staff

























Contact
 1040 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60607


 


Social Media Accounts














UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















