


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 



































 
 





Leadership

UIC’s chief executive officer


As the head of one of three distinct universities in the University of Illinois System, the chancellor reports directly to the president and the Board of Trustees. Reporting to the chancellor is the provost and vice chancellor for academic affairs, the chief academic and budget office; the vice chancellor for health affairs, the main office for oversight and coordination of education, research and health care delivery among UIC’s seven health science colleges; as well as other vice chancellors and staff.



 



Michael D. Amiridis






Michael D. Amiridis took office as UIC chancellor in March 2015, ready to lead “a model of a public urban research institution in this country, located in a most vibrant global city.” A native of northern Greece, he was a first-generation college student who came to the U.S. to pursue graduate studies in chemical engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Prior to becoming UIC chancellor, Amiridis spent more than two decades as a professor, researcher and senior administrator at the University of South Carolina.
As UIC’s chancellor, Amiridis heads Chicago’s largest university with 15 academic colleges and the nation’s largest medical school.











 



UIC administration







Name
Title




Michael D. Amiridis



Susan Poser



Robert Barish



John Coronado



Rex Tolliver



Joanna Groden



Theresa Mintle



Jeff Nearhoof




 












 








Governing structure




The University of Illinois System – the state’s most comprehensive public university system – is composed of three distinct universities: Chicago, Urbana-Champaign and Springfield with regional medical campuses in Peoria, Rockford and the Quad Cities. Extension offices, research parks and the U of I hospital expand the reach of the system.
Board of Trustees
Overseeing the 80,000-student institution is the Board of Trustees and the U of I president. Along with the chancellor/vice president of each university, the board and president drive the system’s commitment to its core missions of education, research, public service and economic development.
The Board of Trustees consists of 13 members, 11 who have official votes. Nine are appointed by the Governor for terms of six years, and three student trustees (one from each university) are elected by referenda at their universities for one-year terms. One student trustee is appointed by the Governor to have an official vote. The Governor serves as an ex-officio member.
System Offices
Joining the president are the vice presidents for academic affairs, finance, health affairs, and research, as well as the offices of University Counsel, Governmental Relations, and University Relations.
The units within the System Offices provide vital services and support – such as business and financial services, IT, facilities planning, auditing, legal counsel – to the universities and their students, faculty, and staff.



























 



More links








Strategic Planning at UIC

            Focusing on Urban Excellence
        
 
UIC Undergraduate Student Success Initiative

            A plan for assuring the timely graduation for every UIC undergraduate
        
 
2010 Campus Master Plan

            A flexible framework to guide the future physical development of the campus
        
 
Diversity Strategic Thinking & Planning

            Goals and actions for integrating diversity throughout campus
        
 
 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








