





 































 







  







Jane Addams College of Social Work


Advancing the mission of social work on behalf of the poor, the oppressed, racial and ethnic minorities, and other at-risk urban populations.
















This 8-minute online info session presents a concise overview of the PhD program and how it can prepare you for a career in education, research, administration or social policy.














There’s still time to come learn about our Post-MSW PEL program, which prepares you to obtain a Professional Educator License (PEL) with a School Social Worker Endorsement.





 

  

The Latest at Jane Addams







Jane Addams is hiring for tenure-track faculty at the rank of Assistant Professor. Appointment starts in August 2019.











Forging Solutions to the Difficulties Faced by Older Returning Citizens
On November 29, 2017, the Jane Addams Center for Social Policy and Research convened a second Summit on Reentry, Reintegration and Aging. Participants included community partners, former prisoners and family of prisoners, as well as top-level public policy stakeholders from several Illinois state agencies.
Issues covered at the summit included helping returning citizens obtain ID, ensuring continuity of health care, and making sure they receive necessary community supports. Concrete next steps were identified to ensure that participants continue to push forward on these issues.



 









State of the College: Diversity, Equity, and Social Inclusion
Over the past year, national events have placed race and ethnicity at the center of public debate. On September 27 and October 5, 2017 Dean Hairston publicly examined the state of diversity at JACSW and how the College will continue it’s long-standing tradition of equity and inclusion.
Both events were attended by faculty and students alike, and the dean responded to student inquiries and concerns. She announced that she would hold a series of open forums in which students may freely voice questions or concern about the College. She also announced her plan to appoint a new Advisory Council to the Dean that will be charged with reviewing the state of the College and developing recommendations for maintaining equity and inclusion.



 


 


 

  

Upcoming Events

 

  

Jane Addams SpotlightsFaculty







Dr. James Swartz is working with Illinois DHS to curb deaths from opioid overdoes, and serves on UIC’s Opioid Task Force.




Student







A former U.S. Marine, PhD student Christine Barber has a research interest in suicide prevention among high-risk populations.




Alumnus







 Rick Velasquez, MSW ’84, is Executive Director of Youth Outreach Services, Inc., which serves approximately 4,000 youth and families annually.





 

  

Academic ProgramsMSW
Program


The Master of Social Work degree program prepares students with the competencies and practice behaviors necessary for advanced social work practice in an area of specialization.






MSW/MPH
Joint Degree


The MSW/MPH program allows students interested in the field of public health social work to integrate the competencies and perspectives of the two disciplines in a deliberate and coordinated way.






Post MSW
PEL Program


This non-degree program prepares those with an MSW to become school social workers and eligible to apply for the IBES Professional Educator License (PEL), School Social Worker Endorsement.






PhD
Program


This program develops scholars of social justice, providing the knowledge and skills needed to advance social work theory and research, and to develop and direct social welfare programs and services.








 

  

Make a Gift. Make an Impact.








Your gift can strengthen the profession of social work through scholarships for students, by supporting crucial research, or supporting our community service programs.






Connect With Jane Addams College









 


(Visited 66,541 times, 62 visits today) 








 
The Jane Addams College of Social Work is a vibrant urban college committed to diversity and social justice. The college carries forward the mission of Jane Addams and the Hull-House movement, adapting it to the realities of today's urban settings.



 

 




 







 




 

University of Illinois at Chicago (MC 309)
1040 West Harrison Street
Chicago, Illinois 60607-7134
Phone: (312) 996-7096
Email:
For MSW Admissions: 
For PhD Admissions: 




 




 
 
The Museum and its many vibrant programs make connections between the work of Hull-House residents and important contemporary social issues.



 





© Copyright  2016 - Jane Addams College of Social Work at UIC























 



















 









































