


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 



































 
 





Public & Media Resources

Information for journalists and the community


 plays a vital role in facilitating relationships between the university and our neighboring communities, the media and the general public. Visit the  to connect with us on social media, subscribe to news releases, or learn more about the research, education, health care and public service missions of the university.



 



Find an expert / media Inquiries




Faculty and staff at Chicago’s only public research university are available to speak with the news media on a host of topics, from cyber crime to health disparities to urban transportation. The  will direct you to resources from our 15 colleges and the state’s major public medical center. If you’re a journalist looking for information about UIC or need additional assistance finding an expert to comment on a story, contact the .



 



Freedom of Information Act




As a state institution, the university is subject to the  (FOIA) which provides public access to government documents and records. All Freedom of Information requests to the University of Illinois administration or any of the three University campuses in Urbana-Champaign, Chicago, and Springfield are processed by the Office for University Relations. For additional information or questions about FOIA, contact  at (217) 333-6400.



 



Brand identity




Interested in using the UIC logo or the Flames athletic marks? If so, please contact Marketing and Brand Management at Staff can provide the appropriate logo or mark as well as guidelines on how to use them. If you are uncertain whether a UIC logo should be used, contact Marketing and Brand Management fpr clarification and permission. Please note: The logo may not be used in any situation that implies endorsement by the university for a product or service.



 



Filming on campus




UIC’s unique combination of a college campus located within minutes of downtown Chicago makes it an appealing filming location. The following shows have recently filmed on the UIC campus:

Chicago Fire
Chicago P.D.
Shameless

.
Productions seeking to film on the UIC campus should contact Marketing and Brand Management at .
 



 



Licensing




Companies interested in using the UIC logo or the Flames athletic mark in branded merchandise should contact Marketing and Brand Management at .



 



More media and public resources








Community Relations

            News, programs and resources for the community
        
 
UIC News

            News for the UIC community
        
 
Consumer Information

            For current and prospective students and employees as required by the Higher Education Act
        
 
Public and Government Affairs

            Establishing relationships and building understanding of UIC's contributions to society
        
 
Office of International Affairs

            Representing UIC abroad and in relations with local and national partners
        
 
Marketing and Brand Management

            UIC marketing tools and resources
        
 
 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








