










  


 




Follow Us







 

 





  



         Search Toggle
      

         Navbar Toggle
      







Search



Search 





 

  






Topics:

 

 

Information For:

 

  








Diversity Matters














  




You are here»
Summer Research Opportunities Program for Undergraduates

 








The Summer Research Opportunities Program (SROP) was first established in 1986 by the Graduate Deans of the Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC). The goal of SROP is to introduce domestic underrepresented sophomores and juniors to academic research experiences and prepare them for carrers in research. Student participants work one-on-one with a faculty mentor giving them an opportunity to experience research and the graduate student experience. The University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) launched its SROP in 1986, with a total of six minority undergraduate students. 
As UIC approaches 33 years of hosting this program, SROP has served over fifteen hundred student participants. The success of SROP has been truly phenomenal. The retention, graduation, and post-baccalaureate rates of SROP students are substantially higher than those of the general student population. More than two-thirds of the SROP alumni have gone on to graduate and professional schools, which is four times the national average for all baccalaureates in the U.S.
UIC's numbers are equally impressive. At last count, 97% of those students who participated in its program have continued their studies or have earned a BA/BS degree, 47% are working toward or have completed a graduate degree, and 21.2% are working toward or have completed a professional degree. Our diverse student body, Research Extensive standing and location in the heart of downtown Chicago provide for an exceptional summer research experience.
In the Fall semester, the Graduate College invites undergraduates to apply for participation in SROP. Students may apply to the program already having a research project in mind and a committed faculty mentor or simply by having a research area of interest. In cases where a student has an experienced interest but no mentor, the SROP staff will try to facilitate a match. The SROP Staff and faculty advisory committee are responsible for the selection process, the allocation of funding, and the evaluation of the program. Faculty or students interested in participating in the program should contact program Director, Allen Bryson at (312) 413-2558 or .
Program Structure
In addition to working one-on-one with a faculty member, scholars participate in the following programmatic components:
Campus-based educational enrichment activities designed to broaden the students' view of graduate education and research;
Workshops that inform students about graduate admissions procedures, financial aid opportunities, and test-taking skills;
Seminars conducted by faculty and graduate students that expose students to a wide range of fields of study and research instruction.
Informal social gatherings that provide a relaxed setting for students and faculty to exchange ideas and share experiences;
The Illinois Summer Research Symposium conference where scholars have the opportunity to introduce their research and meet with other students who are interested in academic careers. Sponsored by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
University of Illinois at Chicago sponsored final symposium for the formal presentation of scholars' research projects.
Please note:  Due to the 30-40 hour per week obligation to research activities, students who participate in SROP should view this program as a "full-time" experience. Holding additional internships, outside employment, or taking courses of any kind during SROP is strictly prohibited.
Important Dates for SROP Applicants

November 5, 2018


             2019 Application Opens


February 2, 2019


    2019 Application Submission Deadline


April 12, 2019


 All Decision Notifcations Announced (via e-mail)


May 31,  2019


        SROP 2019  Orientation Begins

Applying
The SROP application process is fully online. All requirements will need to be submitted within the online application. (Please do not send any paper materials for the SROP application.)
You will need to submit:
Online Application: To receive an application  
Requirements within the application:
Transcripts for all post-secondary coursework (college/university) This should be a scanned copy of an official transcript or an electronic official transcript PDF (if your school offers them). Unofficial web academic histories from student portals will not be accepted.
Two letters of recommendation: Applicants will initiate online recommendation requests from within the application
Statement of Purpose/ Career Statement  (400 Words Maximum)
Research Interest Statement (400 Words maximum)
All applicants who attend UIC; must secure a commitment statement from a faculty member to supervise their project before their application is considered complete. UIC Students Only
FAQ About SROP
Who is eligible to participate in SROP?
Traditionally sophomores and juniors from historically underrepresented ethnic minority groups who have a 3.75 (on a 5.0 scale) or  2.75 (on a 4.0 scale) or higher grade point average are invited to apply. Applicants must be U.S. citizens of permanent residents.
What are the benefits of the program?
Students receive an award of up to $4,000 to work with talented faculty at a Research I institution with state-of-the-art facilities. That experience includes instruction in research development which prepares students for the demands of graduate study. They also learn how to apply for admissions and financial support for graduate school. In addition, SROP students are offered opportunities to present their research projects twice during the summer calendar.
What about housing/board and travel?
The program covers the cost of travel (up to $350) for students who do not live in Chicago or the surrounding suburbs. Housing is available and optional for all accepted participants.
What are the dates of the program?
The SROP is a ten-week program that begins May 30th, 2019 and concludes July 26th, 2019.  SROP move-in day for all students in housing is May 29th, 2019.
How do I apply to the program?The application deadline is February 8, 2019. There is no application fee. Again, to receive an application, . (Incomplete applications will not be accepted for submission.) For additional questions regarding the application or SROP general information, please contact the SROP Director, Allen J. Bryson via phone at (312) 413-2558 or email at , .
Samples of 
 

 
 


  














 



©Copyright 2016
The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
 

 

Footer Menu






 

 




Follow Us







 

 

Shibboleth login






  


