 






































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate






Main Menu
























































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site














 














College OfLiberal ArtsAndSciences




Laboratory of Integrative Neuroscience
Laboratory of Integrative Neuroscience

















LIN Programming Shortcuts











Research










Seminar Series










Student Opportunities










Request Information








Welcome to the Laboratory of Integrative Neuroscience!



The Laboratory of Integrative Neuroscience is a unique interdisciplinary entity bringing together faculty from the Natural Sciences (Biology and Chemistry), Social Sciences (Psychology) and Humanities (Philosophy).
Because of the interdisciplinary nature of neuroscience, our endeavors expand to other units in the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, as well as other colleges, e.g. Applied Health Sciences, Engineering, Education, Medicine and Pharmacy. This breadth of intellectual inquiry represents our greatest strength in the pursuit of excellence in research and teaching – aimed towards understanding brain-behavior relationships.







        The Laboratory of Integrative Neuroscience's Mission
      






Design, manage and oversee the undergraduate major in Neuroscience
Foster the intellectual growth of neuroscience trainees in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences
Participate in University-wide neuroscience endeavors
Generate and communicate new knowledge in neuroscience




  Photo by Eliza Jacobs-Brichford
  
               | 
              
  Parvalbumin-expressing interneurons in the rat prefrontal cortex.
  









Neuroscience: A Top Performing Major in LAS





48% 
of Neuroscience students graduate with honors, one of the highest percentages for College of Liberal Arts and Sciences degree majors.







11th 
Neuroscience is currently the 11th largest major in LAS and has more than doubled in the last 5 years.







58% 
of the Neuroscience majors who applied to medical school were accepted - a higher percent than both Biochemistry and Biological Sciences.









Highlights!







            Neuroscience: A Top Performing Major in LAS
        

                58% of the Neuroscience majors who applied to medical school were accepted.
            









            Interdisciplinary Research Options
        

                LIN pulls from multiple disciplines to achieve our mission 
            









            Contact Us!
        

                We're here to help!
            









News and Calendar







Posted on November 07, 2018



 




Posted on September 11, 2017



 




Posted on May 22, 2017



 




Posted on October 11, 2016



 




Posted on August 23, 2016



 















Follow us!



































College OfLiberal ArtsAndSciences




Contact
 845 W. Taylor St., 3256 SES Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts











UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















