


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 






 



































 
 





Job Opportunities

Creating positive change by recruiting the doers, thinkers, and makers


With approximately 29,000 students and more than 13,000 employees, UIC is Chicago’s largest public research university and second-largest university employer. University of Illinois at Chicago has 15 top-ranking colleges and a health sciences system that includes a hospital, clinics and seven health sciences colleges. Our mission, for our students as well as for our faculty and staff, is to provide access to excellence and success.
UIC offers  including health, dental and vision insurance and paid holiday and leave time.



 



Diversity






Our strength is derived from our commitment to diversity and inclusion. UIC is among the top five most diverse campuses in the nation and our campus culture encourages the contributions and success of every individual.
Equal employment opportunities are provided to all individuals regardless of their race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, marital status, physical or mental disability, parental status, housing status, source of income or military status. This is in accordance with applicable federal, state and local EEO laws.




 



Find job openings








Faculty and staff

            Including academic professional, civil service, faculty, nursing, graduate assistant and postdoc research
        
 
Students

            Helping students find part-time jobs and connecting employers to students
        
 
Career services

            Career development and job search support for students and recent alumni
        
 
 



For employers






UIC sponsors one of the largest college career fairs in the Chicago area with thousands of students and recent alumni participating. Potential employers may access  to schedule on-campus interviews, review a database of student resumes and communicate with students. Employers may post job openings, schedule on-campus recruiting and pre-select all of their candidates for campus interviews at .




 



More links








UIC Human Resources

            Information on jobs, professional development, benefits and more
        
 
University Human Resources employee website (NESSIE)

            Log in for access to your job-related information
        
 
Faculty Affairs HR

            Information and resources for faculty careers
        
 
 









1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








