











Search form

Search 












 












Health Policy and Administration 


You are here// You Are Here:   /  MHA 



MHA
 





MHA
 
EDUCATING THE NEXT GENERATION OF HEALTHCARE LEADERS
Students within the CAHME accredited UIC Master of Healthcare Administration (MHA) program experience a rigorous course curriculum that provides the core knowledge and concepts within the major healthcare disciplines. Courses are taught by both healthcare academicians and practitioners that provide students with a blend of cutting-edge theory and the understanding of how it is applied within the healthcare sector. Faculty possess a broad range of expertise in essential healthcare subjects that include:
Healthcare Finance
Population Health Management
Physician Relations
Organizational Leadership
Strategic Marketing and Planning

 
 
Unique to the UIC MHA program is a 12-month, 25 hours per week preceptorship that provides students the opportunity to work with senior management in a healthcare organization that aligns with the student’s career goals. Students go through a matching process and are placed in a healthcare organization within the Chicago healthcare industry where they apply the knowledge they have gained during their first year in the program. The culminating activity within the preceptorship is the completion of the Capstone Project which analyzes and provides recommendations for a major programmatic initiative within the organization.
 

 
Highly Qualified Applicants
Individuals who are pursuing a graduate degree that is health related may be eligible for the UIC MHA expedited admissions process. Applicants who meet the requirements can save time and money by excluding the GRE or GMAT as a requirement and provides an offer of admissions within 5 days of review.
Key elements of this process are: 
Health related bachelor’s degree
Overall 3.5 GPA (based on a 4.0 scale)
Strong reference letter from the program director
Phone interview Opportunities for expedited admissions to the UIC MHA program
 

 

 
Outline of Curriculum
(to see the full student handbook, )


 
YOUR CAREER
Chicago is one of the major healthcare markets within the United States where many healthcare professional associations are based such as the American Hospital Association, American Medical Association and the American College of Healthcare Executives. Additionally, the city is the home to nationally prominent academic health centers and several of the largest healthcare systems in the country. This provides an outstanding opportunity to network with healthcare professionals and to find rewarding job opportunities within the robust healthcare market.
Graduates obtain positions in both the Chicago market and nationwide in a variety of career sectors. During 2016 through 2018 our new graduates accepted positions in the following types of healthcare organizations.
 



 

GAIN KNOWLEDGE AND NETWORK WITH INFLUENCERS 
A student's health management education is highly impacted by the breadth and depth of the program's faculty and their ability to provide both relevant theory and the knowledge of how it is applied within the healthcare system. Indicated below are profiles of some of UIC’s distinguished faculty and their areas of healthcare management practice or research interests:




Clinical institutes management business development and hospital-based programs at Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center.



Strategic and physician resource planning, mergers and acquisitions, business development, marketing and operations. 



Group incentives and standardization, physician practice style and healthcare costs, financial incentives and treatment choices.


 

GOALS MET 
Our master's students through their preceptorships and networking opportunities provided by the program typically start their careers in new jobs before commencement. The average 90-day placement rate for our graduates from 2016 to 2018 was 94 percent.
 



 
The UIC MHA program supports our alumni throughout their careers. Please view how the UIC MHA program has impacted the careers of two of our alumni:
 

 

WE ARE HERE FOR YOU
Still have questions?

 















HPA Home                         

Degrees & Programs

Admissions

Tuition and Fees






 


 









 

Research & Practice






 


 


 









 

People & Community






 


 


 


 


 









 
 

 



News
  













Like us on Facebook!






























Contact Details

Address:
SPHPI 
1603 W. Taylor Street, (MC 923)
Chicago, Il 60612-4394

SPHW
2121 W. Taylor Street
Chicago, Il 60612-4394

Phone: 312-996-6620
Fax: 312-996-1374

 





























Copyright © 2018 University of Illinois at Chicago








   
	   
	   
	   
	   
	






 
