 






























UIC Business - University of Illinois at Chicago


Search form


Search 


Search




 
Footer Utility Menu







 



  

Menu


 














 



You are hereUndergraduate Programs
Undergraduate Programs


Welcome to UIC BusinessThank you for your interest in UIC Business!
Our program is the perfect blend of a relevant real-world business curriculum and outstanding professional development, all within walking distance of Chicago’s dynamic business district. We are committed to helping students develop the essential skills and knowledge needed to succeed in business and in life. We invite you to learn more about our undergraduate offerings and the many opportunities we provide to help students prepare for successful careers. If you are interested in seeing UIC Business first-hand, we encourage you to schedule a campus tour, visit a business class, and to meet the faculty, students and staff that will be part of your UIC experience.
We look forward to working with you!
 





Request Information





Attend an Event





Apply Now


 
Important Dates



 Spring 2019 Campus BBA Deadline 
 November 1 
   

 Fall 2019 Campus BBA Deadline 
 March 1 
   

 Fall 2019 BBA Online Deadline 
 June 1 
   

First Year Applicants

 Spring 2019 Regular Admission Deadline 
 October 1 
   

 Fall 2019 Early Action Deadline 
 November 1 
   

 Fall 2019 Regular Admission Deadline 
 January 15 
   


Transfer Applicants

 Spring 2019 Application Deadline 
 October 15 
   

 Fall 2019 Application Deadline 
 March 31 
   






UIC is ranked in the top 20% of best undergraduate business programs*At UIC Business, we transform student potential into success. Our school connects students to Chicago’s living classroom. We provide a proven education, real-world skills and professional experiences that add up to exciting career opportunities.
*According to U.S. News & World Report


ScholarshipsEach year, UIC Business offers more than $500,000 in scholarships, including our Business Scholars and our special donor-funded awards. 
Business ScholarsBusiness Scholars is a leadership development program within the College of Business Administration. Through a specialized cohort, motivated students attend specialized courses, weekly seminars and have faculty and business mentors throughout the program. .
Professional DevelopmentProfessional development is a key part of the UIC Business undergraduate experience. We work with students to learn and internalize the soft skills that complement a proven, research-based education. Freshman year, students move through courses, advising visits, workshops, events and seminars that showcase the key competencies of professional development that potential employers are looking for. .




Undergraduate Programs




          Bachelor of Science
          in Accounting
        

          Bachelor of Science
          in Information and
          Decision Sciences
        

          Bachelor of Science
          in Entrepreneurship
        





          Bachelor of Science
          in Management
        

          Bachelor of Science
          in Finance
        





          Bachelor of Science
          in Marketing
        

          Bachelor Degree
          Completion Program



















Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram





 

(312) 996-2700
University Hall601 S. Morgan St.11th floorChicago, IL 60607

 









 








 

AACSB Accredited

            Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois          












