 





























UIC Business - University of Illinois at Chicago


Search form


Search 


Search




 
Footer Utility Menu







 



  

Menu


 














 



You are hereUIC Business Liautaud Graduate School
UIC Business Liautaud Graduate School


 





Request Information





Attend an Event





Apply Now


 
Important Dates



International Applicants

 Spring Semester Deadline 
 July 15 
   

 Fall Semester Deadline 
 February 15 
   


Domestic Applicants

 Summer Semester Deadline - MBA, MSA, MSM Only 
 March 15 
   

 Fall Semester Deadline - All Graduate Programs, MBA Priority 
 June 15 
   

 Fall Semester Deadline - MBA Final Application and Supplemental Materials 
 July 15 
   

 Spring Semester Deadline 
 November 1 
   






Work Hard. Dream Big.At UIC Business Liautaud Graduate School, we transform potential into success. Our program connects students to Chicago’s living classroom, and empowers them with a proven education, real-world skills and professional experiences that add up to a high value return on investment.


Corporate MBAFor the past 20 years, UIC Business has formed valuable partnerships with corporations across the globe to offer focused, cohorted MBA programs that meet a company's strategic needs. CMBA Programs are one year full-time degree programs that follow specific tracks, such as Strategic and International Business Management, Financial Markets and Risk Management, or Healthcare Management. Students apply through a sponsoring organization or corporation working in partnership with UIC. For more information about these programs, .


UIC Graduate Student OrganizationsA benefit of studying at UIC Business is the access students have to a bustling metropolis. With many student organizations and events, as well as cultural activities and professional opportunities offered in the city of Chicago, UIC Liautaud students are never without an opportunity to enhance their learning experience. UIC Business' robust student organizations complement the academic program by offering hands-on leadership and networking opportunities with faculty members, alumni and the business community. These organizations, all initiated, developed and led by students, reflect their interest in enriching the academic, social and community involvement that is part of their UIC graduate experience.





























Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram





 

(312) 996-2700
University Hall601 S. Morgan St.11th floorChicago, IL 60607

 









 








 

AACSB Accredited

            Copyright 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois          












