







    Skip to
    
,
    
,
    ,

    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




















      Toggle Menu
      




        Search
        


















ChicagoRockford





Main Menu






























































































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site




































Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford











Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.























In this section
 
Programs

A breadth of study areas & depth of faculty expertise, allowing students to both explore & specialize.

Whether you’re earning a PharmD or pursuing one of our master’s or doctorate degrees, you can count on being taught by award-winning faculty whose work is shaping the future of the field. You can also count on gaining valuable hands-on experience, building a powerful professional network, and knowing that you have what it takes to refine an expertise and dive into your career. 

 



What students do here (and why it matters)





+
Class of 2017
Maen Qatoum
The Rockford campus has a unique learning environment since there are medical students who work closely with pharmacy students.


 
+
Alum
Marc Cook
In long term care pharmacy I saw a way to apply the skills I learned at UIC.

 
+
Alum
Claire Thom
This institution set the foundation for how I think, how I behave and how I view the world.

 
+
Class of 2016
Jamie Hale
I chose to go to the Rockford campus because it is smaller and more intimate.


 
+
Class of 2018
Shane Murphy
I chose the UIC College of Pharmacy because it is one of the best in the country and with an education from here, it will open up limitless possibilities in the field of pharmaceuticals.


 







Get to Know Us







Transitioning Students to the Professional World

"Oftentimes, students do not realize the vast potential of employment pathways. These students need someone to come alongside them, to guide them and answer their questions. We can make this happen."
-Dr. Nick G. Popovich, Associate Dean for Professional Development, on the importance of mentorship and professional development.






  




 


Other UIC Resources













 


Learn About Our HistoryA legacy of excellence that began in 1859.




Join a Student OrganizationStudent organizations are a great opportunity to give back to the community.























Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford






Tools
























Button Menu











Chicago Campus

833 S. Wood St.
Chicago, IL 60612

312-996-7240




Rockford Campus

1601 Parkview Ave.
Rm A301
Rockford, IL 61107

815-395-5775





Social Media Accounts


















UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
 |



Campuses















