







    Skip to
    
,
    
,
    ,

    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




















      Toggle Menu
      




        Search
        


















ChicagoRockford





Main Menu






























































































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site




































Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford




Chicago Campus







Home
About
Chicago Campus






Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.
































In this section
 

Urban, diverse, dynamic, and fast-paced, the College’s Chicago campus is set in the heart of the Illinois Medical District, about two miles west of the city’s central business district and less than one mile from UIC’s East campus.
Public transportation makes it easy to live in Chicago without a car, and nearby areas such as Taylor Street and Little Italy offer many dining options.

In addition to the educational and clinical opportunities offered through the University of Illinois Hospital, the College focuses on its mission to serve society by interacting with Chicago-area communities through patient-oriented service projects, education, and research. The College reflects the multi-cultural composition of its host city as well as the patients it serves.
 









Chicago Campus

Address:
833 S. Wood St.
Chicago, IL 60612


Phone: 312-996-7240
Fax: 312-996-3272


 





What's Special About the Chicago Campus?





+
Class of 2017
Jewel Sophia Younge
I chose UIC, primarily, for the videotaped lectures. Although I try never to miss class, I love that I can go home and re-listen to lectures.


 
+
Alum
Marc Cook
In long term care pharmacy I saw a way to apply the skills I learned at UIC.

 
+
Alum
Claire Thom
This institution set the foundation for how I think, how I behave and how I view the world.

 
+
Class of 2015
Jody Mallicoat
The wide variety of career opportunities attracted me to a career in pharmacy, and UIC was the best place for me to explore those opportunities as a PharmD student.


 
+
Class of 2018
Paula Bielnicka
All of my teachers are experts in their fields which provides me with the knowledge and research opportunities to further my career in the small world of pharmacy.


 







A Unique Health Sciences Community







College of Pharmacy is in the Middle of High-tech Medical Hub

The Illinois Medical District is the world's largest concentration of advanced health care facilities, comprising 560 acres of research facilities and labs, a biotechnology business incubator, a raw development area, universities, and more than 40 health care related facilities. With its strategic location in the heart this district, the College is able to provide unsurpassed educational and collaborative opportunities at nearby District member institutions, including Cook County Hospital, the West Side Veterans Administration Hospital and Rush St. Luke's Presbyterian Medical Center.







  





Chicago, The Windy City
























Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford






Tools
























Button Menu











Chicago Campus

833 S. Wood St.
Chicago, IL 60612

312-996-7240




Rockford Campus

1601 Parkview Ave.
Rm A301
Rockford, IL 61107

815-395-5775





Social Media Accounts


















UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
 |



Campuses















