







    Skip to
    
,
    
,
    ,

    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




















      Toggle Menu
      




        Search
        


















ChicagoRockford





Main Menu






























































































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site




































Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford




Rockford Campus







Home
About
Rockford Campus






Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.
































In this section
 

New facilities, cutting-edge technology, and small class sizes characterize the College’s Rockford campus.  




The top benefits of attending UIC's Rockford Campus



6th ranked pharmacy program in the nation.
Rockford recently named one of the top .
A small class size which means our faculty will know your name!
Competitive in-state tuition for our in-state and out-of-state students as well as lower cost of living in Rockford.
Interprofessional opportunities with our College of Medicine and College of Nursing students.
2017 PGY1 residency match rate is 82%, 15% higher than the national average!





Experience the Rockford Campus
The College of Pharmacy is considered One College. Two Campuses.  This means that regardless of the campus you choose, you are benefiting from the same accreditation, , and reputation that a UIC degree provides.  The Rockford campus also provides in-state tuition to out-of-state and international students through the .  
Lectures are live and taught via state-of-the-art  from both campuses. Students on the Rockford campus have ample opportunities to pursue extracurricular and leadership roles, as well as participate in research, clinical and service-based hands-on learning. In addition to the College’s close ties to the University of Illinois College of Medicine and College of Nursing at Rockford, the city of Rockford is home to a variety of community pharmacies and health-systems where students gain excellent experiences. Students interested in a career in rural pharmacy can choose to be admitted to the Rural Pharmacy Program () which is based in Rockford.
Illinois’ fourth-largest city, Rockford is known for its many parks and forest preserves, as well as theaters, museums, and other “big city amenities” in the context of a smaller-town feel and cost-of-living.  Explore the City of Rockford via video  and . 
A letter from the dean
Welcome to the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) College of Pharmacy at Rockford!  The UIC College of Pharmacy’s Rockford campus was established in 2010 to train pharmacists who provide quality patient care throughout Illinois and the United States.  Students enrolled at the Rockford campus study in modern state-of-the-art classrooms and laboratories specifically designed to meet the training needs for preparing 21st century pharmacists.  Newly constructed classrooms are outfitted with audiovisual equipment that allow classes to be delivered synchronously with the Chicago campus.  Live lectures are taught from both the Chicago and Rockford campuses allowing the College to utilize faculty who are experts in their fields to simultaneously teach students on both campuses.  Coordinated with the lectures, small group discussions are held on each campus and led by in-person faculty who facilitate student interaction, discussion, and understanding of the material.  Laboratory sessions for pharmacy skills and pharmaceutical compounding provide hands-on experience to help our students as they provide patient care through our experiential curriculum, starting in their first semester of pharmacy school.
Our Rockford campus is part of the UIC Health Sciences Campus, home to the UIC College of Medicine and College of Nursing in Rockford.  Located on the banks of the Rock River, Rockford is the fourth largest city in Illinois and offers a small city feel for students who may prefer this.  The campus sits on 20 acres in a residential area of Rockford near the Rock River and nationally-recognized .  The smaller class size in Rockford and interactions with College of Medicine and College of Nursing students provides unique interprofessional education opportunities for our students. Pharmacy student organizations, professional fraternities, and clubs are all available to choose from as you develop into an excellent and caring pharmacist.
For students interested in practicing in a rural community upon graduation the Rockford Campus offers the Rural Pharmacy Education Program (RPHARM).  The goal of the RPHARM concentration is to educate students about the unique challenges and opportunities present in rural communities.  Approximately 20% of our current student population takes part in this concentration.  Upon graduation, students in the RPHARM Program are recognized as having completed a concentration in rural pharmacy services.  Over their four years in pharmacy school RPHARM students work interprofessionally with medical and nursing students enrolled in the Rural Medical Education Program (RMED) and Rural Nursing Program (RNURSING).
The UIC College of Pharmacy at Chicago and Rockford offer students a top tier nationally ranked pharmacy education.  While a student on the Rockford campus, students will benefit from faculty who have an open-door policy and pride themselves on great student mentorship and guidance.  Rockford’s small class size, close-knit student and faculty community, opportunities for interprofessional activities, and a lower cost of living are perfect for students considering a premier UIC College of Pharmacy education with these added bonuses.
Plan to  and learn more about the Rockford Campus!

Sincerely,

Dr. Kevin O. Rynn, PharmD, FCCP, DABAT
Vice Dean and Clinical Professor





 









Rockford Campus

Address:
1601 Parkview Ave.Rm A301
Rockford, IL 61107


Phone: 815-395-5775
Fax: 815-395-5936


  





What's Special About the Rockford Campus?





+
Class of 2016
Jamie Hale
I chose to go to the Rockford campus because it is smaller and more intimate.


 
+
Class of 2017
Maen Qatoum
The Rockford campus has a unique learning environment since there are medical students who work closely with pharmacy students.


 
+
Class of 2017
Jordan Burkholder
Choosing the Rockford Campus...was a perfect fit. Getting a superior education while being close to my family and friends is priceless. 


 
+
Class of 2016
Jeiran Ghasemi
The Rockford campus is one big family and I wanted to be a part of it.


 
+
Vice Dean, Rockford Regional Campus
Dr. Kevin Rynn
You will find a personalized PharmD experience at our Rockford campus with the power of a 6th ranked program.

 







A Unique Health Sciences Community







Collaborate with Colleges On Campus

The College is part of the UIC Health Sciences Campus which includes the College of Medicine and the College of Nursing.  Being so closely associated with the other colleges on campus leads to unique interprofessional education opportunities in Rockford.
The campus is located on 20 tree-lined acres in a residential Rockford neighborhood.  The facilities include auditoriums, state of the art classrooms and conference rooms with live video conferencing capabilities, teaching and research laboratories, compounding and dispensing labs, patient and mannequin simulation centers, media services, an activity center, and the Crawford Library of Health Sciences. 








   





Rockford, IL:  The Forest City 
























Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford






Tools
























Button Menu











Chicago Campus

833 S. Wood St.
Chicago, IL 60612

312-996-7240




Rockford Campus

1601 Parkview Ave.
Rm A301
Rockford, IL 61107

815-395-5775





Social Media Accounts


















UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
 |



Campuses















