

















































 














 NASP –   
































A Division Of Student Affairs












Search
























 











WELCOME TO NASP 
		













OUR MISSION 
		




The Native American Support Program (NASP) mission is to increase the enrollment, 


Our Skills and ServicesSome of our most extraordinary skills ready to solve your problems














Academic Coaching


NASP Staff members work with college advisors to provide assistance with the admissions process and access to appropriate services on and off campus.












Financial Aid Assistance


NASP Team assists students with questions and concerns regarding financial aid and scholarships.













Leadership & Professional Development


Opportunities to participate in leadership workshops, lecture series, film viewings, social events, and cultural activities are encouraged and provided to promote personal growth and accomplishments.












Genealogy and Tribal Enrollment Assistance


NASP believes in the right for individual self-determination. Guidance is provided for those that are committed for in-depth research of their genealogic background.






















Community Outreach


NASP maintains a working relationship with local and national Native American organizations. Participation in NASP provides access to leadership opportunities, internships, summer programs, cultural activities and resources.



















NATIVE AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTHA Celebration of the diversity of Native America & the Indigenous People Across the Nation


This annual event brings together the UIC community and Native American/Indigenous families to celebrate the vibrant cultures of Native America.
This long-standing tradition has been an integral part of the UIC cultural experience for well over two decades.

 





Take It From Them!Here’s what people are saying about us.


NASP, was my home away from home. I was welcomed and included.Heather Farina, MSW 2009






To this day I credit finding my niche in the Chicago Native community to building a strong relationship with NASP.Lori Faber, LAS 2008






NASP has allowed me to build friendships, both academically and professionally, with other members of the organization.Adam Fahey, LAS 2001






The Native American Support Program is important to me because it allows me to connect to my heritage.Michael Pak, Junior, Mechanical Engineering






