 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu
































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site














 






















TRIO
Building community & nurturing academic excellence











Welcome to TRIO at the University of Illinois at Chicago! At TRIO, our mission is to support low-income individuals, first-generation college students, and individuals with disabilities with their educational plans from high school to post-baccalaureate programs. To achieve this mission, TRIO provides an atmosphere of creativity and belonging where students are nurtured and supported in achieving academic excellence that leads to college graduation and career endeavors. Our students are developed to become critical thinkers, leaders, and effective communicators who are prepared for living and working in a global world. UIC is home to two TRIO programs: Student Support Services (SSS) Program and Upward Bound (UB) Program. To learn more about TRIO and UIC’s programs, click on 





Want to learn more about TRIO SSS?




Programs







            Student Support Services
        









            Upward Bound Services
        














Want to learn more about TRIO SSS?
We offer academic coaching, tutorial services, career and graduate school exploration, study room support, and referrals to other services as needed.Click here for more information!









Programs





            About Us
        







            TRIO Staff
        







            Definitions
        






























Contact
 TRIO Student Support Services
1200 W. Harrison, 2720 SSB Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 


 TRIO Upward Bound
1200 W. Harrison, 2720 SSB Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 




Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















