 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu









































































































Eyebrow menu


UIC menu










Search the site














 



















Urban Health Program
Celebrating 40 Years of Success!











Welcome to the UIC Urban Health Program
Welcome to the University of Illinois at Chicago’s Urban Health Program (UHP), the flagship for moving forward the mission to increase minorities within the health sciences and the health professions.
The ultimate goal of our program is to provide programming, resources, and support for pre-health and health professional students, dedicated to addressing persistent health disparities in minority populations and improving the quality and availability of healthcare in underserved urban areas.
Learn more about UHP











UIC Urban Health Program 40th Anniversary Gala
You are cordially invited to join the University of Illinois at Chicago’s Urban Health Program (UHP) and the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs, as we celebrate our 40th Anniversary.
UIC Urban Health Program
40th Anniversary Gala
Saturday, September 22, 2018









Student Services and Resources






The Urban Health Program has positively impacted my undergraduate academic career at UIC. The UHP staff has provided me with the privilege of receiving merit based scholarships, participating in summer internships, volunteering at non-profit organizations and shadowing health science professionals at the University of Illinois Hospital, which has enabled me to realize that my true passion is healthcare and that I should pursue a career in the field of nursing. The UHP staff genuinely cares about me as an individual and wants to see me succeed inside of the classroom as well as outside in the professional world as a mature healthcare professional. I am very proud to be apart of the UIC Urban Health Program family and thankful for their support.



  Willard Fountain
  
               | 
              
  UIC UHP Alumni 2017
  









UHP links










Learn about UHP










Gallery










Alumni Relations







Pre-Health Profession Student Organizations







            Student Services and Resources
        

                UHP seeks to provide educational opportunities geared specifically towards underrepresented minority students.
            









            Pre-Health Profession Student Organizations
        

                UHP organizations offer professional development though presentations, guest lectures, and educational activities.
            








Celebrating 40 Years of Success!





Upcoming Events








UHP Facebook
































Contact
 173 College of Medicine East Tower, 808 S. Wood Street (M/C 967), Chicago, IL 60612
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts










UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















