


































University of Illinois at Chicago




Expand menu

Menu
























































 

The University of Illinois at Chicago 





The University of Illinois at Chicago








 Book a Visit



 Request info



 Apply now





Reminders 














Chicago's Public Research University

Located in the heart of one of the world’s great cities, the University of Illinois at Chicago is a vital part of the educational, technological and cultural fabric of the region. As Chicago’s only public research university with 30,000 students, 15 colleges, a hospital and a health sciences system, UIC provides you access to excellence and opportunity.














Value Diversity

UIC is proud to be recognized as having one of the most ethnically and culturally rich college campuses in America. Our welcoming environment and diverse student body engender deeper learning and provide new perspectives on life. Come experience the strength of multiple voices, races, cultures, beliefs, identities, orientations and points of view.














Serve Others

All human advancement begins with an idea. Ideas change the world. And at UIC, ideas abound! Come join us. Come share your ideas.








 





IGNITE
The
Campaign 
for UIC

                        We are 
University of Illinois at Chicago 







                                UIC Athletics announces Hall of Fame Class of 2019
                                 























                                UI Health’s chief medical officer named ‘Physician of the Year’
                                 



















                                NSF grant to fund advanced deep learning and visualization computing platform
                                 












                                UIC’s mission: To model life on Saturn’s moon in the lab
                                 












Take the Next Step

 Book a visit
 Request info
 Apply now
 Contact us

 




 Campus Reminders


 




News


Pesticide exposure raises risk for cardiovascular disease among Latino workers


UIC commencement speakers to address graduates on Dec. 15


UIC receives $1M bequest from beloved art history professor


UIC establishes new graduate degree in city design





Events


November 19Winter Clothing Drive for El RescateSponsored by the Gender and Sexuality Center and Latino Cultural Center


December 10Bachelor of Arts in Public Policy Information SessionInformation on requirements, application process and careers in public policy


December 13Exploring Endocrine Resistance in Breast CancerRobert Clarke, PhD, DSc

Sponsored by the Breast Cancer Research Group at the University of Illinois Cancer Center.





Academic Dates


December 10–14
Fall semester 2018 final examinations


December 14
Last day for Graduate College to receive certificates of approval for master’s and professional doctorate projects for fall term graduation
















1200 West Harrison St.
Chicago, Illinois 60607
312-996-7000



Tools

























Resources





































Quick Links























































 




















 









                    © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | 


 |
 |








