 




































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu










































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site














 



















Office of Undergraduate Research












Undergraduates who engage in supervised research, scholarship, and creative endeavors experience positive personal, academic, and professional benefits beyond those provided by other college experiences. The UIC Office of Undergraduate Research (OUR) offers UIC students from all backgrounds and in all majors information and resources that help them find, secure, and succeed in such experiences–on and off campus and nationally and internationally. The OUR also supports faculty and staff in mentoring students and garnering funding for their projects. We are home to a number of signature initiatives, including the Undergraduate ResearchExperience opportunity database and the , and a partner with campus units on several others.












            For Students
        

                Opportunities and advice, search the URE database, FAQs.
            









            For Faculty/Staff Researchers
        

                Resources and advice, register in the URE database, FAQs.
            









            OUR Programs
        

                Undergraduate Research Experience database, Chancellor's Undergraduate Research Award, Posters Under the Dome, more.
            









            Join the UIC Research Experience
        

                Students: search for a project or supervisor. Faculty: list your project and find an RA.  Apply for the CURA here.
            









            Additional opportunities
        

                Conduct research, present, or publish around UIC or around the globe.
            









            Give to the OUR
        

                Support the undergraduate research activities of UIC's students today.
            









News and Events







Posted on August 19, 2018



 




Posted on March 26, 2018



 




Posted on May 18, 2017



 




Posted on May 18, 2017



 




Posted on May 18, 2017



 








News and Events





            More news
        







            More events
        









Follow us










































Quick Links



















Contact
 601 S. Morgan St., 2720 University Hall, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















