 



























 

















 






 


 












University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) College of Dentistry


				            Changing the Future of Oral Health				          
 
 
 












 
































 







 


















 








COLLEGE SMILES:  Get the Latest College News 






Healthy Smiles:  Expert Tips for Good Oral Health 












 














Admissions Blog: Tips From Students





 




























 







































 









 


Curriculum Innovations 





























 







 





















 

















 
























 






















 









 


Community Based Service Learning 











 





























 



















 








RESEARCH NEWS

















 




















 














 


What Makes Me Proud To Be An Alumni 




 






























 














 
 









Multidisciplinary Oral Science Training (MOST)




  Multidisciplinary Oral Science Training (MOST) 





























































 






Multidisciplinary Graduate Research Training Under Guidance of Leading Faculty Mentors
Students and postdoctoral fellows in MOST are preparing to shape the future of oral health research and clinical care. The program offers several tracks for graduate / post-graduate researchers, including a PhD program and a combined DMD/PhD program, and a postdoctoral fellowship. 
Explore our 
 
 












Program Description
The Multidisciplinary Oral Science Training (MOST) Program is an umbrella program that supports trainees at various stages of their career and graduate studies that fall within the core research/training mission of the training grant. The program offers several tracks for both undergraduate and graduate / post-graduate researchers, including a PhD program and a combined DMD/PhD program, and a postdoctoral fellowship. 
Oral science research is multidisciplinary because it covers many different areas of biomedicine.  The oral cavity can be thought of as a gateway to many other organ systems in the rest of the body, so research at the College of Dentistry involves a lot more than just teeth. The core research areas in the MOST program are in the biomedical sciences to advance craniofacial-oral-dental research including craniofacial biology, tissue regeneration, tissue engineering, biomaterials, oral cancer, microbiology, immunology, and translational research. 
MOST fellows work with world-class faculty, use cutting-edge technology and explore new directions from the bench to the bedside. Our location at University of Illinois at Chicago - a level-1 biomedical and research university - gives us easy access to a diverse range of cutting-edge research, a diverse patient population and, when we’re not working, everything that Chicago has to offer: miles of open lakefront, great culture, dining and sports. The MOST Program is funded by the .
 
The DMD/PhD Program
The DMD/PhD program integrates our innovative DMD curriculum and clinical training with a customizable basic and translational oral sciences track to offer graduates both a DMD and PhD in Oral Sciences.  Students work closely with faculty mentors and multidisciplinary  science teams to gain valuable experience in the lab and clinic to prepare for careers in science, academics or specialized clinical practice. 
More on the 
 
Research Experiences
MOST participants gain valuable experience not only conducting laboratory research but also improving planning and presentation skills.  Students get mentorship in preparing abstracts for scientific meetings and literature review, and learn new laboratory techniques. 
Mentored research projects
Research seminars
Annual Clinic and Research Day
Learn new lab techniques and project planning skills
Learn how to prepare abstracts and present posters
Learn the ABCs of evidence-based medicine/dentistry
 
More Information
 
For more information:



 





  Program Video
In this video, faculty and students describe the advantages of being a student and researcher at UIC, and the College of Dentistry's DMD/PhD Program  

 
Meet the Program Director
 is Associate Professor and the Director of  Research.  Dr. Bedran-Russo is also the Director of the T32 MOST Program and the MOST Summer Research Program. Her research focuses on biomechanics and biochemistry of dental hard tissue and bioinspired strategies to preserve and repair lost tooth structure.  Dr. Bedran-Russo is actively involved in teaching and mentoring pre-doctoral and post-doctoral students. She is involved in many clinical and research associations such as Academy of Dental Materials, International Association for Dental Research and Academy of Operative Dentistry.
More about 
 
Student Research Group
The Student Research Group is dedicated to increasing and enhancing student research opportunities at the College. The group hosts activities such as the Summer Research Symposium to promote and support student research in dentistry as well as encourage and facilitate opportunities for students to share and further their research. The Research Symposium is a great opportunity for predental students to showcase their research as well as network with fellow predents, dental student researchers, faculty, and members of the .
Want to get involved? Contact us!
President:  
Vice President:   
Treasurer:   
Advisors:  and  
 
 
Get the current list of MOST students, post-grads and faculty mentors.
 








MORE INFORMATION 






UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH 





PROGRAM MANUAL 





SUMMER SEMINARS 





MOST STUDENTS & MENTORS 







 






CONTACT US 


Please contact the following people if you have questions about the MOST Program.
Program Director: Dr. Ana Bedran-Russo, PhD, DDS