







    Skip to
    
,
    
,
    ,

    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




















      Toggle Menu
      




        Search
        


















ChicagoRockford





Main Menu






























































































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site
























Home
Research
Funding Opportunities
SURF






Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.


































































In this section
 
SURF
Summer Undergraduate Research Fellow (SURF) Award

2018 SURF fellows at the 4th Annual Mini Symposium held on August 2, 2018.  From left to right: Brenna Kirkpatrick, John Holton, Kenneth Booker, Dede Golda Gbikpi-Benissan, and Erin Conley

The College of Pharmacy at UIC invites undergraduate students to apply for the Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) Program. The objective of this program is to introduce undergraduate students to biomedical research in order to heighten interest in science as a career and increase the number of young scientists entering the biomedical research disciplines.
The SURF program is located on UIC’s West Campus, in the center of the Illinois Medical District--one of the largest concentrations of advanced health care facilities in the nation-- and just minutes from downtown Chicago. Our location gives us convenient access to a diverse range of cutting-edge research, collaborators and patient populations.
The SURF Program is funded by an institutional award from the .
Program Dates:
The SURF program runs for 10 weeks, starting on Monday, June 3, 2019 and ending on Friday, August 9, 2019.
SURF Program Description
-sponsored SURF program is for undergraduate students interested in biomedical research.  Students will work on independent research projects in the laboratories of their .  Before beginning work, students will attend relevant laboratory safety training.  In addition to individual mentoring, the program offers number of enrichment activities:  research seminars, advanced research instrumentation workshops, career day at a local pharmaceutical company, instructions on how to prepare a scientific presentation, practice talks and  a mini-symposium where all the participants present their research projects in front of the College audience.  Download a sample  for details of 2018 program.  SURF participants will receive compensation of $3,000 for the 10 week period. 
The 2019 Application Cycle is now open!   Applications and Letters of Recommendation are due Monday, January 21, 2019.
.
Eligibility Requirements:

Sophomores or juniors majoring in biology, chemistry, biochemistry, or related field.
GPA of 3.2 or higher on a 4.0 scale.
Students should have a strong desire to pursue an advanced degree (PhD or PharmD/PhD) and must be available for the full 10 weeks of the program.
The program is open to all US Citizens and Permanent Residents. Undergraduate students from groups underrepresented in health-related sciences, i.e. individuals from ethnic or racial groups (African American, Hispanic American, Native American, Alaskan and Hawaiian Natives); individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds, and individuals with physical or mental disabilities are strongly encouraged to apply. 

Application Components and Process:

Application form. .
Personal statement
Transcripts (unofficial are acceptable)
2 letters of recommendations
Submit completed application form, personal statement, and transcripts as a SINGLE PDF file by e-mail to  by January 21, 2019.
Request that your letters of references are e-mailed to by January 21, 2019.

Notification
All effort will be made to notify applicants no later than April 1, 2019 regarding their status. Applicants chosen to participate in the 2019 SURF program will be sent an offer letter via e-mail.
Contact Information

Please contact us by e-mail to .
Previous Recipients
To see the previous recipients, mentors, projects and Mini Symposium photos, please visit the  page


Program Mentors





Mentor
Research Area






Joanna Burdette


Ovarian cancer; Drug discovery



Alessandra Eustaquio
Drug discovery and development; Biosynthesis; Synthetic biology; Microbiology



Les Hanakahi
DNA repair and cancer biology; Drug target discovery



Hyunyoung Jeong
Drug metabolism; Pharmacokinetics



Jeremy Johnson
Preclinical evaluation of natural products for cancer treatment and prevention



Alexander Mankin
Mechanisms of antibiotic action




Antibiotic-producing microbes



Terry Moore
Drug Discovery; Medicinal chemistry; Therapeutically important protein-protein interactions



Brian Murphy
Drug discovery from aquatic microorganisms



John Nitiss
DNA topoisomerases as targets for cancer chemotherapy



Jimmy Orjala
Drug discovery from cyanobacteria and plants




Cancer etiology; Cancer-causing epigenetic modifications; Oncogenic proteins



Debra Tonetti
Pharmacology of breast cancer



Nora Vazquez-Laslop
Mechanisms of antibiotic action




Z. Jim Wang
Program Director

Pharmacology of chronic pain and drug addiction
























Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford






Tools
























Button Menu











Chicago Campus

833 S. Wood St.
Chicago, IL 60612

312-996-7240




Rockford Campus

1601 Parkview Ave.
Rm A301
Rockford, IL 61107

815-395-5775





Social Media Accounts


















UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
 |



Campuses















