 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



















































Eyebrow menu





UIC menu










Search the site














 



















Urban Data Visualization Lab
Urban Data Visualization Lab











Where. It Matters.
WE HELP PEOPLE VISUALIZE NEW WAYS TO SOLVE PROBLEMS.
Many societal problems are complex and difficult to solve. Visualization is the art and science of harnessing the power of images to better understand and solve complex issues. The Urban Data Visualization Lab (UDVL), housed in the , is the university’s in-house team of spatial analysts, modelers, designers and visualization experts who help decision makers and researchers across disciplines solve problems through better understanding of critical challenges.
We employ various technologies, including mapping and geospatial data analysis, complex systems modeling, data management and selection, and visual approaches to effective and meaningful communication. The lab supports students, faculty and community partners as they advance UIC’s mission of engaged urban research and service.
The UDVL faculty and staff also teach courses in the  and the . Students in these programs learn visualization theory, and the effective use of various visualization techniques that provide students with valuable job skills. The GSAV Campus Certificate is offered to non-degree students already holding a bachelors degree from an accredited university.  Credits may later be applied to a graduate degree, if the student is admitted and enrolled in the Masters of  program within three years of completion of the certificate program.
Member of 





Download the UDVL Brochure





News & Events










Posted on July 03, 2018



 







Posted on July 03, 2018



 







Posted on July 03, 2018



 







Posted on November 28, 2017



 







Posted on September 10, 2017



 






























Contact
 412 S. Peoria Street M/C 350, Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts









UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















