
































 




Menu










































 





 


Search for:



 
 






Home








 
 



 
 



 
 



 
 



 
 



 
 



 
 



 
 



 
 



 
 



 
 























 Providing Integrated Solutions to Today’s Transportation Challenges
The Urban Transportation Center (UTC) at the University of Illinois at Chicago is dedicated to conducting research, inspiring education and providing technical assistance on urban transportation planning, policy, operations and management. Since 1979, the UTC has delivered innovative research and education to solve real-world transportation problems. The strategic goal of UTC transportation research is to promote livable communities throughout the nation.






Byrne Interchange Reconstruction
UTC Live Interchange Web Cam
The University of Illinois at Chicago broke ground in early 2018 on  along Harrison Street in a former surface parking lot. From the UTC live Web Cam mounted on the roof of nearby University Hall,  on the Eisenhower Expressway.
Interchange Construction Update
Read a  detailing plans to extend the completion date of the Interchange project to 2022. The report was written by the Chicago Tribune transportation reporter Mary Wisniewski.
Van Buren Bridge Replacement
In October of 2017, crews began work to replace the Van Buren Street bridge, the latest component of the Byrne Circle project. The street was closed from Halsted to Jefferson street until work is completed in summer of 2019. .
UIC Campus Master Plan
How will the UIC campus evolve to meet its mission as a world-class research university? Learn about proposed development and expansion plans by reading , an update to the University's Master Plan. The project is led by the UIC Office of Capital Planning and Project Management and the Office of the Campus Architect. Learn more through .
IDOT Website
Get updates on construction underway by visiting the  hosted by the Illinois Department of Transportation. See . Also, IDOT published an informative 
 
 

Transportation Research
Central Area Circulator
The evolution of Chicago’s efforts to address the distribution and circulation of people in the Central Area is chronicled in a newly published paper.  Downtown public transit proposals and efforts in the second half of 20th Century to create a circulation and distribution system are also analyzed. Read  to get access to the paper, or gain a new perspective from a .
EV Charging Infrastructure
A recently-finalized study provides policy insights into integrating electronic vehicle (EV) infrastructure development with transit systems. Using EV can help eliminate last mile challenges and reduce emissions.  and access the complete report.
Framework Rail ROI
The UTC led a project sponsored by APTA to develop a framework to assess return on investment for high-speed and intercity passenger rail projects in the U.S. Read  and download the complete report.
IDOT Public Engagement
A recent report from the UTC and IPCE employed a new methodology to get input from the public on transportation priorities for Illinois. Visit  to read an abstract and get access to the complete report. Or, gain more insight from .
One-Click Resource Center
Report  that provides transportation solutions for veterans, seniors and disabled in Illinois based on location and type of service. Gain insight from . Read  and download the report. Or read  published by Next City.
 
 
 
 
 

Transportation/Planning Events
UIS 2019 Symposium
Registration is open for the  sponsored by UPPSA -- the Urban Planning and Policy student group within CUPPA. The UIS event -- free to all -- will be held January 25, 2019.
Fall 2018 Seminar Series
.An overview of Metra and its capital projects was the focus of the first Fall presentation September 20. Metra Acting Chief Engineer Christopher Krakar delivered an informative talk and responded to questions.  Please  to request a pdf copy of Christopher's presentation, "An Overview of Metra's Engineering and Capital Program."
Transportation Innovation Seminar
Presentations on smart transportation technology were the focus of the Innovation Seminar November 7 hosted by the German American Chamber of Commerce and UTC.  Insight was shared by representatives from the  and , as well as the .  Visit to learn more and download the presentations delivered.     

UTC News and Info
Denver Metro Challenges
Completion of a segment of Denver's commuter rail system was the subject of  in the Denver Post. UTC Director Dr. P.S. Sriraj offered commentary.
Wait for Parking Permits
Some Metra commuters must wait up to seven years to obtain a parking permit along the busy BNSF route. An  on this topic appeared in the Naperville Sun and included thoughts from UTC Director Dr. P.S. Sriraj. 
Illegal Parking Downtown
Motorists and delivery vehicles sometimes ignore No Parking or No Standing restrictions in downtown Chicago. To get a perspective on the impact, UTC Director Dr. P.S. Sriraj was interviewed for a .
DiJohn Scholarship Awarded
 Congratulations to Sarah Geinosky, MUPP for earning the , established to honor the late transportation researcher and former executive director of Pace Suburban Bus.
Ride Share & Congestion
A recently-published study on the impact of ride sharing services on traffic congestion prompted National Public Radio to air a report from Chicago. UTC Director Dr. P.S. Sriraj offered insight for , aired August 1 on the Morning Edition program.
TRANPRO Illinois HSTP
Visit  developed by the UTC to assist IDOT in Human Services Transportation Plan coordination.

 


 The Urban Transportation Center is a research unit within the  at the .
 |  |  |  | 
Urban Transportation Center (MC357), 412 South Peoria Street, Suite 340, Chicago, IL 60607-7064Phone: 312-996-4820 Fax: 312-413-0006
 Copyright © 2018 - The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois

