







    Skip to
    
,
    
,
    ,

    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




















      Toggle Menu
      




        Search
        


















ChicagoRockford





Main Menu






























































































































































































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site


























Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.

















Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford




College of Pharmacy | University of Illinois at Chicago
Where today's experts train the Pharmacy leaders of tomorrow







UIC is ranked the #6 College of Pharmacy in the country for good reason: research and clinical innovations, discoveries and comprehensive, committed teaching. That is why we've been defining the field for more than 150 years.

   



News Highlights





New Scholarship Fund Created in Honor of the Class of 1983
How Dr. Juliana Chan Is Making A Difference
Dima Qato selected as National Academy of Medicine fellow

Our Locations




Chicago Campus

Our Chicago campus is strategically located in the world-renown Illinois Medical District, providing numerous educational, clinical, and collaborative opportunities in a diverse urban setting.


Rockford Campus

Our Rockford campus, which opened in 2010, shares a 20-acre tree-lined site and state-of-the-art facilities with the U of I College of Medicine and College of Nursing at Rockford. Students gain hands-on clinical experience at the city’s multiple hospitals.






Our People





+
Alum
Dustin Cavida
Being in Rockford was the greatest experience I could ever ask for!

 
+
Class of 2017
Jordan Burkholder
Choosing the Rockford Campus...was a perfect fit. Getting a superior education while being close to my family and friends is priceless. 


 
+
Class of 2016
Jeiran Ghasemi
The Rockford campus is one big family and I wanted to be a part of it.


 
+
Class of 2017
Jewel Sophia Younge
I chose UIC, primarily, for the videotaped lectures. Although I try never to miss class, I love that I can go home and re-listen to lectures.


 
+
Alum
Claire Thom
This institution set the foundation for how I think, how I behave and how I view the world.

 





Why UIC?  Because our students are given the foundation to pursue their dreams.  
Last year, our residency match rate was 77%.
Our NAPLEX pass rate was  94.49%, 4% above the national average.
There’s always room in our legacy for more great minds and caring hearts, whether you’re a student, professor, preceptor, or supporter of our mission.














Collegeof PharmacyChicagoRockford






Tools
























Button Menu











Chicago Campus

833 S. Wood St.
Chicago, IL 60612

312-996-7240




Rockford Campus

1601 Parkview Ave.
Rm A301
Rockford, IL 61107

815-395-5775





Social Media Accounts


















UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |
 |



Campuses









