






































EAES





        Search















































































































































welcome to eaes Earth and environmental scientists explore dynamic processes that occur from molecular to global scales and which, over geologic time, have shaped our planet as we know it today.  Our understanding of Earth processes provides essential information on critical natural resources like water, air, and soil; the materials needed for innovative construction, manufacturing, and technology; and the framework for exploring other planets, moons, and beyond.  Our environment – the Earth system we live in and depend on – is increasingly being altered by human activity, bringing a new and urgent dimension to the discipline. Careers in Earth and environmental science are many. The American Geosciences Institute predicts a serious shortage of trained workers, estimated at 135,000, in our field over the next decade.  The U.S. Department of Labor - Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts a 16% increase in jobs in geoscience fields and a 15% increase in jobs in environmental science fields, higher than the overall average growth of 11% for all occupations in the United States. EaES faculty apply expertise in geochemistry, geobiology, and geophysics to study processes in the atmosphere, at Earth’s surface, in Earth’s interior, and on other planetary bodies. Our research involves field work around the globe, laboratory investigations on campus and at national facilities, and computational modeling. The research of our faculty and students is integrated into the classroom. 
We invite you to explore our site to learn about the educational and research opportunities we offer to Bachelor of Science (BS), Master of Science (MS), and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) students in Earth and Environmental Sciences.    
            The mission of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences is
              to provide exceptional undergraduate and graduate education in basic and applied Earth and environmental science,  to excel in research on geochemical, geobiological, and geophysical systems of Earth and other planets, to address challenges in environmental health and energy sources, to communicate how geoscience knowledge benefits the public in Chicago, Illinois, the nation, and the world.     






Calendar










Date: 
					Jan 24, 2019
                    
                










Date: 
					Jan 31, 2019
                    
                










Date: 
					Feb 7, 2019
                    
                








News









































©2017 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois.












Department of Earth & Environmental Sciences
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences
845 West Taylor Street (SES/MC 186)
Chicago, IL 60607-7059
Tel (312) 996-3154






  



   












