 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu




























































































































































Eyebrow menu











UIC menu










Search the site














 



















Dining Services
Serving the UIC community











UIC Dining Services is committed to serving students and the rest of the UIC community every day.  We serve nutritious food for every taste and style.  We are committed to sustainability and work hard to find locally sourced suppliers and we have well established and active compositing program.  Customer service is at the heart of everything we strive to do.  Eating together is about building community; join us in one of our dining halls or retails food operations across the UIC campus.






Call to Action










Events










Hours & Locations


















Catering










FAQs











Feedback







Main Links







            Menus and Nutrition
        









            Meal Plans
        














Love To Dine On Campus?
Check dining schedules. Enjoy new Features. Give us Feedback. Dine On Campus™ provides helpful, dining-related information for your school. After selecting your school, you can find places to eat, whether or not they’re open, and how close they are to you. Once you select a location, you can get directions using Maps and browse menu items. Tapping on a menu item displays the nutritional information and other important details. You can even add menu items to HealthKit if you’re interested in tracking the nutritional value of what you eat.









Food Apps







            Tapingo
        









            Argo Tea
        









            Dunkin Donuts
        









            Moe’sRockin’ Rewards
        









            Fooda
        









            Farmers Fridge
        









News & Events










Posted on August 07, 2018



 







Posted on August 07, 2018



 
































Meal Plans













Dining Services
















Catering Services









Footer Menu
















Contact
 750 S. Halsted St.  Chicago Illinois, 60607
Phone: 


 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















