 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu










































































































































Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site














 



















ID Center
 











Our Mission
The mission of the ID Center is to support the university community with a standardized and convenient form of identification. The ID Center strives to equip the card as a means to provide access to related university systems and services. A dedicated staff is committed to serving all customers in an efficient and courteous manner. The ID Center will endeavor to bring expanded uses of the card through advances in technology and innovation.
What we do
The ID Center provides a one-stop shop for university students‚ faculty‚ staff and visitors identification card needs. We directly support the production of i-cards‚ visitor cards‚ the Dragon Dollar$ program‚ the CTA U-Pass program‚ and provide assistance with all facets of using your university issued ID on campus.
Our satellite ID Center on the west campus supports the medical & professional community with ID creation services close to their offices and classrooms.





Contact Information for Main ID Center







            CTA U-PASS
        

                Your U-Pass provides you unlimited rides on the CTA during your enrollment as a full-time student at the University.
            









            Identification Cards
        

                Your i-card is your official permanent ID card and will be used as long as you attend or are employed by the University.
            









            Dragon Dollar$
        

                The Dragon Dollar$ program is the official campus debit account linked to your i-card.
            








Locations




Main ID Center 
Satellite ID Center






            1200 W. Harrison St., 1790 SSB, Chicago, Illinois 60607, MC 049

Monday – Friday 8:30 AM -5:00 PM

Phone: (312) 413-5940

Email: idcenter@uic.edu

          

            828 S. Wolcott (@ Polk), 241 SCW, Chicago, Illinois 60607, MC 579

Monday – Friday 8:30 AM-4:00 PM

Phone: (312) 413-5944
Email: idcenter@uic.edu

          






























Contact
 

 


Social Media Accounts













UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















