 


































Your browser is unsupported
We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari.






    Skip to
    
,
    
,
        ,
    
    or go to the
    .
  













Search the site




      Toggle Menu
      





        Search
        























Google Translate
Main Menu



Eyebrow menu








UIC menu










Search the site














 



















Student Success Initiatives












At the University of Illinois at Chicago, we are committed to providing opportunities for all students–opportunities to get into college, to thrive while on campus, and to be prepared for successful careers in a constantly changing global society. Since 2012, the entire campus has been engaged in a collective effort to explore ways that will enhance our students’ success. Every unit on campus has been involved as we have developed, nurtured, and maintained student success programs, conducted research related to student success, and sought collaborations with a variety of external partners, including community-based organizations, Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges of Chicago, and many others. The UIC community understands that student success is “everyone’s” responsibility.





Selected Student Success Initiatives at UIC:







            Integrated Planning & Advising for Student Success
        

                A system that promotes shared responsibility for student educational progress and success
            









            Early Alerts
        

                An early intervention program that helps students overcome barriers to college success
            









            Student Noncognitive Strengths and Advising
        

                A project that uses noncognitive factors to help advisors support individual students in achieving success
            









            Summer College
        

                Tuition-free programming for incoming, first-year students aimed at easing the transition from high school to college
            









            Finish in Four
        

                A campaign for students to take 15 credits a semester and finish their degrees in four years
            









            First-Year Seminars
        

                Courses that help students transition to UIC and connect with instructors, peers, resources, and academic programs
            









            Transition Coaching
        

                Promotes access, engagement and persistence for students matriculating to or currently enrolled at UIC
            









            Flames Leadership Network
        

                Identifies students who have strong credentials, promise to succeed, leadership potential, and helps them thrive at UIC
            









            L@SGANAS
        

                Latin@s Gaining Access to Networks for Advancement in Science
            









            Project Management for Student Success Initiatives
        

                Supports collective change management at UIC, focusing on improvement in undergraduate retention and graduation.
            









            LARES Leaders
        

                Promotes leadership development through civic engagement and awareness of Latinx policies in the community. 
            









            Excel Center
        

                A network of centers that provide academic learning support to students and prepare them for professional success
            









            Business Scholars – BAC Mentoring Program
        

                Connects Business Scholars with faculty, Dean's Business Advisory Council and alumni who share experiences and resources
            









            Guaranteed Paid Internship Program-College of Eng.
        

                Gives incoming fall freshman students in engineering the opportunity to serve as paid interns for the following summer.
            









            Student Success Innovation Fund
        

                Internal grant competition seeking proposals that explore innovative approaches to enhancing student success.
            









            Summer Sophomore Success Program
        

                Students nearing sophomore status have the opportunity to take two UIC courses over the summer but only pay for one.
            






























Contact
 

 


Social Media Accounts









UIC.edu links





















  © 2018 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois |



Campuses






















